They are the ones who obey Gods commands And they remain faithful to Jesus
I wont be fooled
Three times I was beaten with sticks. Once they tried to kill me by throwing stones at me. Three times I was shipwrecked. I spent a night and a day in the open sea.
Don’t be like Cain. He belonged to the evil one. He murdered his brother.
They have only one purpose. So they will give their power and authority to the beast.
When Jesus returned a crowd welcomed him They were all expecting him
But there is a sin that does lead to death.
But a married man is concerned about the matters of this world He wants to know how he can please his wife
Because he was very sad and troubled, he prayed even harder. His sweat was like drops of blood falling to the ground.
The soldiers were about to take Paul into the fort. Then he asked the commander, “May I say something to you?”
Someone told him Your mother and brothers are standing outside They want to see you
Christ Jesus took hold of me so that I could reach that goal So I keep pushing myself forward to reach it
they said. “God has come to help his people.”
Brothers and sisters dont find fault with one another
On another Sabbath day, Jesus went into the synagogue and was teaching. A man whose right hand was weak and twisted was there.
I wanted you to put them in order. I also wanted you to appoint elders in every town. I told you how to do it.
Judas, who was going to hand Jesus over, was standing there with them.
Jesus and his disciples arrived again in Jerusalem He was walking in the temple courtyard Then the chief priests came to him The teachers of the law and the elders came too
And I will also share in the glory that is going to come
He will bring you into his heavenly glory without any fault. He will bring you there with great joy.
And to kindness for one another, add love.
I can win this time
But if she does she must not get married again Or she can go back to her husband And a husband must not divorce his wife
He will be important in the sight of the Lord
In the church at Antioch there were prophets and teachers
A large crowd of people followed him. They had seen the signs he had done by healing sick people.
So Paul motioned with his hand. Then he began to present his case.
We have found that Paul is a troublemaker This man stirs up trouble among Jews all over the world
nations
But suppose someone takes a good look at the perfect law that gives freedom. And they keep looking at it. Suppose they don’t forget what they’ve heard, but they do what the law says. Then this person will be blessed in what they do.
When he saw the man he felt sorry for him
So this is what we preach whether I or the other apostles who preached to you
For many days he was seen by those who had traveled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem.
It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready when he comes. What I’m about to tell you is true. The master will then dress himself so he can serve them. He will have them take their places at the table. And he will come and wait on them.
Then the man said Lord I believe
Finally the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees They asked the guards Why didnt you bring him in
It is a light to be given to the Gentiles
Many of the Samaritans from the town of Sychar believed in Jesus. They believed because of what the woman had said about him. She said, “He told me everything I’ve ever done.”
Many who believe in Christ will have died already
God is the only one who cant die
God is fair. He will not forget what you have done. He will remember the love you have shown him. You showed it when you helped his people. And you show it when you keep on helping them.
We have to stop this thing It must not spread any further among the people We have to warn these men They must never speak to anyone in Jesus name again
I John am the one who heard and saw these things After that I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel He is the one who had been showing me these things
He replied, “My mother and brothers are those who hear God’s word and do what it says.”
Do they belong to the people of Israel So do I
Isnt this the same man who used to sit and beg they asked
A little later someone else saw Peter. “You also are one of them,” he said.
In those days the number of believers was growing.
“Whoever has ears should listen.”
Each of the four living creatures had six wings Each creature was covered all over with eyes It had eyes even under its wings Day and night they never stop saying
But he gives grace to those who are humble Proverbs
Five times the Jews gave me thirtynine strokes with a whip.
A wild storm came up. Waves crashed over the boat. It was about to sink.
They are also seven kings Five have fallen one is ruling and the other has still not come When he does come he must remain for only a little while
I do not understand.
But God had given a promise through all the prophets And this is how he has made his promise come true He said that his Messiah would suffer
Jesus mother and brothers came to see him
But Jesus did not say he would not die. He only said, “Suppose I want him to remain alive until I return.
But Christ is faithful as the Son over the house of God And we are his house if we hold tightly to what we are certain about We must also hold tightly to the hope we boast in
All his followers were scattered
King Herod heard about this. Jesus’ name had become well known. Some were saying, “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead! That is why he has the power to do miracles.”
You yourselves know that I have used my own hands to meet my needs. I have also met the needs of my companions.
Their hearts will be filled with love for you when they pray for you God has given you grace that is better than anything
Only faith in Christ can take it away
But he was full of the Holy Spirit. He looked up to heaven and saw God’s glory. He saw Jesus standing at God’s right hand.
I said Their hearts are always going astray
Last of all, he also appeared to me. I was like someone who wasn’t born at the right time.
May the Lord is with your spirit.
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples. He said, “Whoever wants to be my disciple must say no to themselves. They must pick up their cross and follow me.
How terrible it is for you, great city,
But God is the builder of everything.
If you can said Jesus Everything is possible for the one who believes
We believe that Jesus died and rose again.
Do you believe Moses Then you should believe me
I would like all of you to speak in other languages. But I would rather have you prophesy. The person who prophesies is more helpful than those who speak in other languages. But that is not the case if someone explains what was said in the other languages. Then the whole church can be built up.
Greet Priscilla and Aquila. Greet those who live in the house of Onesiphorus.
Brothers and sisters, you became like the members of God’s churches in Judea. They are believers in Christ Jesus, just as you are.
But the angel said to him Do not be afraid Zechariah Your prayer has been heard
The Letter to the Church in Pergamum
The friends here send their greetings
Then they all went home.
you have already been warned about this So be on your guard Then you wont be led astray by people who dont obey the law Instead you will remain safe
When the wine was gone
Sarah will have a son
Brothers and sisters, let me give you an example from everyday life.
They found witnesses who were willing to tell lies
I baptize you with water. But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”
When he has brought out all his own sheep, he goes on ahead of them. His sheep follow him because they know his voice.
This is the disciple who is a witness about these things
The servant saw him there. She said again to those standing around, “This fellow is one of them.”
Levi was the son of Melki.
But I ask, “Didn’t the people of Israel hear?” Of course they did. It is written,
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will make that person a pillar in the temple of my God.
Jesus answered, “It is written, ‘Man must not live only on bread. He must also live on every word that comes from the mouth of God.’ ”
Paul Was Appointed by God
I have held them out to a stubborn people who do not obey me
Suppose nothing had been wrong with that first covenant Then no one would have looked for another covenant
God did not spare his own Son. He gave him up for us all. Then won’t he also freely give us everything else?
Whatever anyone else dares to brag about I also dare to brag about
Publius owned property nearby. He was the chief official on the island. He welcomed us to his home.
So the commanding officer went to Paul. “Tell me,” he asked. “Are you a Roman citizen?”
Then she heard about Jesus. She came up behind him in the crowd and touched his clothes.
You served the one who rules over the spiritual forces of evil.
But someone will ask, “How are the dead raised? What kind of body will they have?”
“Listen, fellow children of Abraham! Listen, you Gentiles who worship God! This message of salvation has been sent to us.
Forgive just as the Lord forgave you
If you would, aren’t you treating some people better than others? Aren’t you like judges who have evil thoughts?
He will announce my name to the Gentiles and to their kings.
Here is what we announce to everyone about the Word of life
Come Lord
Why not?
Im young
Their sense of what is right and wrong has been destroyed. It’s as though it has been burned with a hot iron.
I serve God with my whole heart. I preach the good news about his Son. God knows that I always remember you
Why aren’t my words clear to you? Because you can’t really hear what I say.
That was the time they made a statue to be their god It was shaped like a calf They brought sacrifices to it
Then Jesus took bread He gave thanks and broke it He handed it to them and said This is my body It is given for you Every time you eat it do this in memory of me
a wife should satisfy her husbands needs
The world is guilty as far as judgment is concerned Thats because the devil the prince of this world has already been judged
Suppose someone has a claim against you, and you are on your way to court. Try hard to settle the matter on the way. If you don’t, that person may drag you off to the judge. The judge may turn you over to the officer. And the officer may throw you into prison.
Some land drinks the rain that falls on it
On the other side there was a garden. Jesus and his disciples went into it.
This happens to all who believe.
May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord give you grace, mercy and peace.
It was the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread. That was the time to sacrifice the Passover lamb. Jesus’ disciples asked him, “Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover meal?”
Throw that worthless slave outside There in the darkness people will weep and grind their teeth
I myself will be in them
What I’m about to tell you is true. Many prophets and godly people wanted to see what you see. But they didn’t see it. They wanted to hear what you hear. But they didn’t hear it.
A man in the crowd called out. “Teacher,” he said, “I beg you to look at my son. He is my only child.
“Blessed are those who wash their robes. They will have the right to come to the tree of life. They will be allowed to go through the gates into the city.
If they do that, they will be judged. They have broken their first promise.
Im talking to people who are reasonable Judge for yourselves what I say
He likes to watch TV
And the glory of the Lord shone around them
Here is a true saying One plant and another gathers
It is the promise that our tewelve tribes are hoping to see come true
When he returns, many who believe in him will have died already. We believe that God will bring them back with Jesus.
He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven He gives you crops in their seasons He provides you with plenty of food He fills your hearts with joy
God also made everything through him
Scripture says, “The one who believes in him will never be put to shame.”
Our people must learn to commit themselves to doing what is good.
The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land.
But you will see me.
Matthat was the son of Levi.
Why do you say that
Paul Travels through Macedonia and Greece
He was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper
The wine will run out and the wineskins will be destroyed
Share with the Lords people who are in need Welcome others into your homes
Father I pray they will be one just as you are in me and I am in you I want them also to be in us
Here is what is written in the book of Isaiah the prophet. It says,
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates Its water dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the East
They knew that Jesus had not gotten into it with his disciples.
“You have answered correctly,” Jesus replied. “Do that, and you will live.”
Jason has welcomed them into his house They are all disobeying Caesars commands They say there is another king He is called Jesus
He will not change his mind He has said
Many are bragging the way the people of the world do. So I will brag like that too.
The first angel blew his trumpet. Hail and fire mixed with blood were thrown down on the earth. A third of the earth was burned up. A third of the trees were burned up. All the green grass was burned up.
It is written The Gentiles say evil things against Gods name because of you
Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light There is nothing in them to make them fall into sin
Then my brother would not have died
Who has put you under an evil spell
Those who were tending the pigs saw what had happened.
Have the authorities really decided that he is the Messiah
We pray that he will do this by his power.
Because of his faith he made his home in the land God had promised him Abraham was like an outsider in a strange country
Omega,
Melchizedek did not trace his family line from Levi
Herod asked him many questions but Jesus gave him no answer
Here are the words of Jesus who is the First and the Last
We are pushed hard from all sides But we are not beaten down We are bewildered But that doesnt make us lose hope
They asked, “Why don’t your disciples obey what the elders teach? Your disciples don’t wash their hands before they eat!”
And that’s what we really are!
Herod saw that the death of James pleased some Jews
Here is what I mean One of you says I follow Paul
Instead, we have given up doing secret and shameful things.
They, too, will drink the wine of God’s great anger. His wine has been poured full strength into the cup of his anger.
Then Jesus said to them Dont be afraid Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee There they will see me
I am free and dont belong to anyone But I have made myself a slave to everyone I do it to win as many as I can to Christ
They also have power to turn the waters into blood
“How many loaves do you have?” Jesus asked. “Seven,” they replied, “and a few small fish.”
Those who were tending the pigs saw what had happened. They ran off and reported it in the town and countryside.
He placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb Then he went away
The second terrible judgment has passed
But a Samaritan came to the place where the man was
Moses considered it better than the riches of Egypt. He was looking ahead to his reward.
It was like a jasper, as clear as crystal.
From now on, let no one cause trouble for me. My body has marks that show I belong to Jesus.
Greeks look for wisdom.
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Pergamum
We had trouble getting to Cnidus. The wind did not let us stay on course. So we passed the calmer side of Crete, opposite Salmone.
We don’t need to write to you about your love for one another. God himself has taught you to love one another.
Giving your word makes a promise certain. It puts an end to all arguing.
Greet Herodion, my fellow Jew.
They must look for peace and go after it
The moon was under her feet. On her head she wore a crown of  stars.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever
And they must not commit sexual sins.”
Everything is under his control
Giving to Needy People
Philip answered him Suppose we were able to buy enough bread for each person to have just a bite That would take more than half a years pay
Well done
Your sins have not been forgiven.
The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering things like this about him
Remember those earlier days after you received the light.
Then one of the elders spoke to me. “Who are these people dressed in white robes?” he asked. “Where did they come from?”
He said to his attendants This is John the Baptist He has risen from the dead That is why he has the power to do miracles
They are the Holy Spirit, the birth of Jesus, and the death of Jesus. And the three of them agree.
So put your hands to work Strengthen your legs for the journey
Watch out that you don’t lose what we have worked for.
So,“Come out from among them
Dear lady, I’m not writing you a new command. I’m writing a command we’ve had from the beginning. I’m asking that we love one another.
You will roll them up like a robe.
The sun rises Its burning heat dries up the plants
When the commander heard this he went to the commanding officer and reported it What are you going to do
God is fair.
No, we announce God’s wisdom. His wisdom is a mystery that has been hidden.
Melea was the son of Menna.
His body shone like lightning. His clothes were as white as snow.
To people who are pure, all things are pure.
I do not have a cat.
“The rich man answered, ‘Then I beg you, father Abraham. Send Lazarus to my family.
And may you know his love even though it cant be known completely Then you will be filled with everything God has for you
I hurt the followers of the Way of Jesus I sent many of them to their death I arrested men and women I threw them into prison
I pray that you also may enjoy good health.
He ordered him to be held with two chains.
“There will be signs in the sun, moon and stars. The nations of the earth will be in terrible pain. They will be puzzled by the roaring and tossing of the sea.
‘You are not my people.’
It always protects It always trusts It always hopes It never gives up
He threw his coat to one side Then he jumped to his feet and came to Jesus
The one who enters through the gate is the shepherd of the sheep.
Heaven and earth will pass away. But my words will never pass away.
Each person should carry their own load
God may want you to suffer for doing good Thats better than suffering for doing evil
The governor motioned for Paul to speak
Anyone who serves me must follow me.
So we should welcome people like them. We should work together with them for the truth.
They must do something useful with their own hands. Then they will have something to give to people in need.
But God is faithful and fair If we confess our sins he will forgive our sins He will forgive every wrong thing we have done He will make us pure
But David was a prophet He knew that God had made a promise to him God had promised that he would make someone in Davids family line king after him
When he said this, he meant the Holy Spirit. Those who believed in Jesus would receive the Spirit later. Up to that time, the Spirit had not been given. This was because Jesus had not yet received glory.
Let the peace that Christ gives rule in your hearts. As parts of one body, you were appointed to live in peace. And be thankful.
Before that, he was useless to you. But now he has become useful to you and to me.
My Father wants all who look to the Son and believe in him to have eternal life. I will raise them up on the last day.”
Has Christ ever been gentle and loving toward you?
Now I am asking you to eat some food. You need it to live. Not one of you will lose a single hair from your head.”
For a while you wont even be able to see the light of the sun
When you take another believer to court you have lost the battle already Why not be treated wrongly Why not be cheated
He will send the Messiah Jesus has been appointed as the Messiah for you
“‘Fallen!
If I am guilty of anything worthy of death Im willing to die
The promises were given to Abraham.
He received living words to pass on to us
An angel from heaven appeared to Jesus and gave him strength.
He also healed those who needed to be healed.
if a virgin marries someone she has not sinned
They will be shut out of heaven
They are no longer two but one So no one should separate what God has joined together
I serve Christ Jesus.
God gave him the name that is above every name.
You are judging only by how things look on the surface Suppose someone is sure they belong to Christ
The enemy who plants them is the devil The harvest is judgment day And the workers are angels
With the Lord a day is like a thousand years And a thousand years are like a day
One of the criminals hanging there made fun of Jesus He said Arent you the Messiah Save yourself Save us
“Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord!”
So he went to the man who took care of the vineyard. He said, ‘For three years now I’ve been coming to look for fruit on this fig tree. But I haven’t found any. Cut it down! Why should it use up the soil?’
When the people heard this they said We hope this never happens
These witnesses have power to close up the sky. Then it will not rain while they are prophesying. They also have power to turn the waters into blood. And they can strike the earth with every kind of plague. They can do this as often as they want to.
Because of what Jesus said, a false report spread among the believers. The story was told that the disciple Jesus loved wouldn’t die. But Jesus did not say he would not die. He only said, “Suppose I want him to remain alive until I return. What does that matter to you?”
If we claim we have not sinned, we are calling God a liar. His word is not in us.
Brothers and sisters we are not afraid to enter the Most Holy Room We enter boldly because of the blood of Jesus
My son be strong in the grace that is yours in Christ Jesus
Paul answered I am a Jew from Tarsus in Cilicia I am a citizen of an important city Please let me speak to the people
The tongue is also a fire
Those bringing charges against me did not find me arguing with anyone at the temple. I wasn’t stirring up a crowd in the synagogues or anywhere else in the city.
“But the man who was treating the other one badly pushed Moses to one side.
I Paul write this greeting in my own handwriting Thats how I prove that I am the author of all my letters I always do it that way
The law you received was given by angels
So go to the street corners. Invite to the dinner anyone you can find.’
Herod hasn’t either. So he sent Jesus back to us. As you can see, Jesus has done nothing that is worthy of death.
In the Aramaic language it was called Golgotha
The apostles in Jerusalem heard that people in Samaria had accepted Gods word So they sent Peter and John to Samaria
Here is what John was preaching After me there is someone coming who is more powerful than I am Im not good enough to bend down and untie his sandals
Greet all Gods people with a holy kiss
There he preached that people should be baptized and turn away from their sins
We are witnesses of everything he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem
He meant Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.
God exists.
Someone might argue When I lie it becomes clearer that God is truthful It makes his glory shine more brightly Why then does he find me guilty of sin
Brothers and sisters, I want you to know that I planned many times to visit you. But until now I have been kept from coming. My work has produced results among the other Gentiles.
Love one another deeply
So among Gods churches we brag about the fact that you dont give up easily We brag about your faith in all the suffering and testing you are going through
The old rule is set aside It was weak and useless
He accepts people from every nation
Jesus knew that the Father had put everything under his power.
When Jesus heard this he said to him You are still missing one thing Sell everything you have Give the money to those who are poor You will have treasure in heaven Then come and follow me
And dont greet anyone on the road
Timothy, stay there in Ephesus. That is what I told you to do when I went into Macedonia. I want you to command certain people not to teach things that aren’t true.
Then we can give our attention to prayer and to teaching God’s word.”
The promises were given to Abraham. They were also given to his seed. Scripture does not say, “and to seeds.” That means many people. It says, “And to your seed.”  That means one person. And that one person is Christ.
Fight the good fight along with all other believers. Take hold of eternal life.
At that time Jesus said, “I praise you, Father. You are Lord of heaven and earth. You have hidden these things from wise and educated people. But you have shown them to little children.
From there we traveled to Philippi a Roman colony
When Someone Sins Against You
You should obey your Father You shouldnt give in to evil desires They controlled your life when you didnt know any better
I’m sure of this.
So here is what Im asking you to do Dont lose hope because I am suffering for you
He replied Your faith is so small Why are you so afraid Then Jesus got up and ordered the winds and the waves to stop It became completely calm
So I have asked to see you and talk with you
“I have no husband,” she replied.
I was given a long stick that looked like a measuring rod I was told Go and measure the temple of God And measure the altar where the people are worshiping
It is written The first man Adam became a living person  The last Adam became a spirit that gives life
Then a third of the day had no light
Jesus replied, “That’s right. Elijah is supposed to come and make all things new again.
The owners slaves came to him They said Sir didnt you plant good seed in your field Then where did the weeds come from
The friends here send their greetings. Greet each one of the friends there.
It was alive first in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice.
Here is what we know. No one is made right with God by obeying the law. It is by believing in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus. This is so we can be made right with God by believing in Christ. We are not made right by obeying the law. That’s because no one can be made right with God by obeying the law.
They shouldn’t show their masters disrespect just because they are also believers.
It will become sour in your stomach.
They worshiped and served created things
And suppose a woman has a husband who is not a believer If he is willing to live with her she must not divorce him
But they asked Pilate to have him killed
The official heard that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea. So he went to Jesus and begged him to come and heal his son. The boy was close to death.
Suppose they had not known the way of godliness This would have been better than to know godliness and then turn away from it The way of godliness is the sacred command passed on to them
We don’t want Satan to outsmart us.
Do not give holy things to dogs Do not throw your pearls to pigs If you do they might walk all over them They might turn around and tear you to pieces
I have not yet received all these things. I have not yet reached my goal. Christ Jesus took hold of me so that I could reach that goal. So I keep pushing myself forward to reach it.
It was the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread The disciples came to Jesus They asked Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover meal
They have turned away from the truth They say that the time when people will rise from the dead has already come They destroy the faith of some people
dear friends
He was very sick.
They only heard others say The man who used to attack us has changed He is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy
He put away his toys
We do what pleases him.
He suffered shame because of Christ. He thought it had great value.
But we do see Jesus already given a crown of glory and honor He was made lower than the angels for a little while
John wore clothes made out of camel’s hair. He had a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey.
They surrounded the living creatures and the elders
Seven angels were about to bring the seven last plagues
Instead they should serve them even better Thats because their masters are loved by them as believers These masters are committed to caring for their slaves
“Do you see all these things?” Jesus asked. “What I’m about to tell you is true. Not one stone here will be left on top of another. Every stone will be thrown down.”
With this in mind, I myself have carefully looked into everything from the beginning. So I also decided to write down an orderly report of exactly what happened. I am doing this for you, most excellent Theophilus.
The ax is already lying at the roots of the trees
We said Anyone who wont work shouldnt be allowed to eat
All the nations will be gathered in front of him. He will separate the people into two groups. He will be like a shepherd who separates the sheep from the goats.
Young Kasman Passes is a resident resident of the city of Tsitsqa።
This kind of person can’t make up their mind.
Then no one would have looked for another covenant
“Which ones?” the man asked.
When the sun came up, it burned the plants. They dried up because they had no roots.
Sin entered the world because one man sinned. And death came because of sin. Everyone sinned, so death came to all people.
Judas who was going to hand Jesus over had arranged a signal with them The one I kiss is the man he said Arrest him and have the guards lead him away
It is also the city where their Lord was nailed to a cross. The city is sometimes compared to Sodom or Egypt.
“But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?”
and see good days.
They brought the colt to Jesus. They threw their coats over it. Then he sat on it.
In the one case the tenth is collected by people who die
Jesus replied Thats right Elijah is supposed to come and make all things new again
Jesus was in the temple courtyard walking in Solomons Porch
That’s because the world does not see him or know him.
The older brother became angry He refused to go in So his father went out and begged him
He came to Jesus at night and said, “Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher who has come from God. We know that God is with you. If he weren’t, you couldn’t do the signs you are doing.”
Suppose an unbeliever invites you to a meal and you want to go. Then eat anything that is put in front of you. Don’t ask if it’s right or wrong.
The Pharisees loved money They heard all that Jesus said and made fun of him
Some of their bodies were brought back to Shechem They were placed in a tomb Abraham had bought He had purchased it from Hamors sons at Shechem He had purchased it for a certain amount of money
So you argue and fight
Thats the rule all the churches must follow
He brought it back on a big plate He gave it to the girl and she gave it to her mother
Be careful If you arent your hearts will be loaded down with wasteful living drunkenness and the worries of life Then the day the Son of Man returns will close on you like a trap It will happen suddenly
They did more than we expected. First they gave themselves to the Lord. Then they gave themselves to us because that was what God wanted.
If I love you more will you love me less
But we belong to the day So let us control ourselves Let us put on our chest the armor of faith and love Let us put on the hope of salvation like a helmet
And suppose a woman has a husband who is not a believer. If he is willing to live with her, she must not divorce him.
They said Who is this who even forgives sins
Our hope for you remains firm.
None of you should look out just for your own good. Each of you should also look out for the good of others.
And what is seed scattered on rocky places like? The people hear the message. At once they receive it with joy.
On the Sabbath day we went outside the city gate We walked down to the river There we expected to find a place of prayer
We passed our teachings on to you by what we preached and wrote.
He will bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom.
You will just be speaking into the air
One day John’s disciples came. They said to Jesus, “We and the Pharisees often go without eating. Why don’t your disciples go without eating?”
“ ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth,’ he replied. ‘I am the one you are opposing.’
The woman was dressed in purple and bright red. She was gleaming with gold, jewels and pearls. In her hand she held a golden cup filled with things that God hates. It was filled with her terrible, dirty sins.
Jesus looked at him and loved him. “You are missing one thing,” he said. “Go and sell everything you have. Give the money to those who are poor. You will have treasure in heaven. Then come and follow me.”
It is true that these rules seem wise Because of them people give themselves over to their own kind of worship They pretend they are humble They treat their bodies very badly
Jesus told the crowd another story. “Here is what the kingdom of heaven is like,” he said. “A man planted good seed in his field.
He did it to bring her to himself as a brightly shining church. He wants a church that has no stain or wrinkle or any other flaw. He wants a church that is holy and without blame.
While the Lord is watching, here is what I command you. Have this letter read to all the brothers and sisters.
They approached the village where they were going. Jesus kept walking as if he were going farther.
Jesus finished saying all these things to the people who were listening Then he entered Capernaum
then that person truly loves God.
I tell you, God will see that things are made right for them. He will make sure it happens quickly. But when the Son of Man comes, will he find people on earth who have faith?”
Dont be afraid Just believe She will be healed
Christ set us free from the curse of the law He did it by becoming a curse for us It is written Everyone who is hung on a pole is under Gods curse
Those who had seen it told the others how the man who had been controlled by demons was now healed
And death came because of sin.
We aren’t trying to please people. We want to please God. He tests our hearts.
Get out!
They wont get very far Just like Jannes and Jambres their foolish ways will be clear to everyone
But David was a prophet. He knew that God had made a promise to him. God had promised that he would make someone in David’s family line king after him.
It was early in the morning. All the chief priests and the elders of the people planned how to put Jesus to death.
It snowed
Haven’t you read what this part of Scripture says,
He hadn’t been able to use his feet since the day he was born.
“Suppose you can be trusted with something very little. Then you can also be trusted with something very large. But suppose you are not honest with something very little. Then you will also not be honest with something very large.
the Ninevites will prove that those people are guilty. The men of Nineveh turned away from their sins when Jonah preached to them.
No new wine must be poured into new wineskins
This hope is set before us in God’s promise. So God made his promise and gave his word. These two things can’t change. He couldn’t lie about them.
It is written
He will not break a bent twig
You haven’t come to a blast from God’s trumpet. You haven’t come to a voice speaking to you. When people heard that voice long ago, they begged it not to say anything more to them.
They are like a man who builds a house. He digs down deep and sets it on solid rock. When a flood comes, the river rushes against the house. But the water can’t shake it. The house is well built.
Suppose I speak in the languages of human beings or of angels. If I don’t have love, I am only a loud gong or a noisy cymbal.
But when you plant the seed, it grows. It becomes the largest of all garden plants. Its branches are so big that birds can rest in its shade.”
I think Abrham  can't win.
They were delighted to hear that he would do this They promised to give Judas money So he watched for the right time to hand Jesus over to them
Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea
She must also have been faithful to her husband.
Everything that is written in the Law and the Prophets is based on these two commandments
But some still had their doubts
The apostles said to the Lord, “Give us more faith!”
Jesus stopped and said Call for him
I am not lying The God and Father of the Lord Jesus know this May God be praised forever
They measured how deep the water was. They found that it was one hundred twenty feet deep. A short time later they measured the water again. This time it was nignity feet deep.
Every time they didnt obey they were punished
It doesnt come from the Holy Spirit
I remember your honest and true faith.
You will be arrested and brought to trial. But don’t worry ahead of time about what you will say. Just say what God brings to your mind at the time. It is not you speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
You have come to God who is the Judge of all people
Here is how God showed his love among us
I will give my life for you.”
I’m speaking to the elders among you. I was a witness of Christ’s sufferings. And I will also share in the glory that is going to come. I’m making my appeal to you as one who is an elder together with you.
“This is the covenant I will make with them
So Peter got out of the boat. He walked on the water toward Jesus.
I will say it again.
No one can see God’s kingdom unless they are born again.”
Paul was about to give reasons for his actions. But just then Gallio spoke to them. He said, “You Jews don’t claim that Paul has committed a great or small crime. If you did, it would make sense for me to listen to you.
I was hungry. And you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty. And you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger. And you invited me in.
Jesus is a witness about these things He says Yes I am coming soon
Twenty-four other thrones surrounded that throne. Twenty-four elders were sitting on them. The elders were dressed in white. They had gold crowns on their heads.
When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you
Do not love the world or anything in it.
Anyone who welcomes them shares in their evil work
But you remain the same.
Who Is the Most Important Person
I will show love to those I love.”
They know that God’s commands are right. They know that those who do evil things should die.
So why arent you treating me the same way now
In fact, you do love all God’s family all around Macedonia. Brothers and sisters, we are asking you to love one another more and more.
Jesus Heals a Man Who Could Not Hear or Speak
Then the disciples came to Jesus in private. They asked, “Why couldn’t we drive out the demon?”
By his promise the Son was appointed The Son has been made perfect forever
The large crowd listened to Jesus with delight.
Or should we do evil?
Some slaves have masters who are believers.
Mary has chosen what is better
The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But how terrible it will be for the one who hands over the Son of Man! It would be better for him if he had not been born.”
Annas and Caiaphas were high priests
Its true that some preach about Christ because they are jealous But others preach about Christ to help me in my work
That was the time they made a statue to be their god. It was shaped like a calf. They brought sacrifices to it.
They all ate the same spiritual food
Share with the Lord’s people who are in need. Welcome others into your homes.
God drove out the nations that were in their way At that time Joshua was Israels leader
Simon Peter has explained to us what God has now done He has chosen some of the Gentiles to be among his very own people
‘I know what you are doing. I know you aren’t cold or hot. I wish you were either one or the other!
They are like dirty spots and stains They enjoy their sinful pleasures while they eat with you
It was just before the Passover Feast
He has given us the power to serve under a new covenant The covenant is not based on the written Law of Moses It comes from the Holy Spirit The written Law kills but the Spirit gives life
They should first learn to put their faith into practice. They should care for their own family.
seven thousend people for myself They have not bowed down to Baal
They must not try to get money by cheating people
We are not holding back our love from you But you are holding back your love from us
The first angel blew his trumpet.
So no more bragging about human leaders!
I dont do the good things I want to do
Here I am! I stand at the door and knock.
Jesus Chooses the Twelve Apostles
God is the blessed and only Ruler.
Should we save life?
Those who commit adultery with her will suffer greatly too Their only way out is to turn away from what she taught them to do
Do you believe this
It is written,
I need to get a stamp
Who is my mother Who are my brothers he asked
Jesus asked them What are you talking about as you walk along
Instead I do what I hate to do
They told him, “Jesus of Nazareth is passing by.”
The Son of Man is going to come in his Father’s glory. His angels will come with him. And he will reward everyone in keeping with what they have done.
Going on from that place Jesus went into their synagogue
sister isnt Gods child either
Are people saved by the law that requires them to obey
She wants to serve the Lord with both body and spirit.
The Sadducees came to Jesus with a question. They do not believe that people rise from the dead.
That is also what God planned for them.
He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. Priscilla and Aquila heard him. So they invited him to their home. There they gave him a better understanding of the way of God.
They spoke evil things against the God of heaven They did this because of their pains and their sores But they refused to turn away from the sins they had committed
And so John the Baptist appeared in the desert He preached that people should be baptized and turn away from their sins Then God would forgive them
to follow the lead of people like them. Follow everyone who joins in the task and works hard at it.
All of us get tripped up in many ways Suppose someone is never wrong in what they say Then they are perfect They are able to keep their whole body under control
In this way he was made perfect Eternal salvation comes from him He saves all those who obey him
But suppose you do suffer for doing what is right Even then you will be blessed
So you see that a person is considered right with God by what they do It doesnt happen only because they believe
And no one dared to ask him any more questions
I saw what they were doing It was not in line with the truth of the good news
When the crowd and the city officials heard this, they became very upset.
They answered him, “We are Abraham’s children.
Earlier I broke five loaves for the five thousend. How many baskets of pieces did you pick up?”
You heard about Christ and were taught about life in him.
When I do, they will prophesy.
Turn away from godless chatter.
If your eye causes you to sin poke it out and throw it away It would be better to enter the kingdom of heaven with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell
But whoever has been forgiven only alittle loves only a little
Herod added this sin to all his others
The people and their rulers had no reason at all for sentencing Jesus to death
He threw himself at Jesus feet and thanked him The man was a Samaritan
Melchizedek blessed the one who had received the promises.
free or slave had to receive the mark
But Jesus asked him Judas are you handing over the Son of Man with a kiss
Peter followed him out of the prison.
It will bring great joy for all the people.
When he arrived at the house of Jairus, he did not let everyone go in with him. He took only Peter, John and James, and the child’s father and mother.
She was the wife of Herod’s brother.
When opposing groups try to snatch it they hold the stone and the friends support it።
She and her family were baptized. Then she invited us to her home. “Do you consider me a believer in the Lord?” she asked. “If you do, come and stay at my house.” She succeeded in getting us to go home with her.
You are honored.
He is wearing gloves
Then Jesus looked up.
At harvest time he sent a servant to the renters He told the servant to collect from them some of the fruit of the vineyard
Noah had faith So he built an ark to save his family He built it because of his great respect for God
Until now you have not asked for anything in my name.
But the Pharisees said, “He drives out demons by the power of the prince of demons.”
It came from Abraham
I heard a sound from heaven. It was like the roar of rushing waters and loud thunder. The sound I heard was like the music of harps being played.
Suppose someone says I know him But suppose this person does not do what God commands Then this person is a liar and is not telling the truth
We are working to provide it to the community next
How did he open your eyes
Masters give your slaves what is right and fair Do it because you know that you also have a Master in heaven
On Herods birthday the daughter of Herodias danced for Herod and his guests She pleased Herod very much
Right now you have plenty in order to take care of what they need.
On his way home he was sitting in his chariot He was reading the Book of Isaiah the prophet
You heard it from us. But you didn’t accept it as a human word.
They renewed my spirit, and yours also. People like them are worthy of honor.
Dont be fooled
But I don’t want anyone to fool you with words that only sound good.
I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of God’s holy people. They are the ones who are witnesses about Jesus.
Are you free from such a promise Then dont look for a wife
But let us give thanks to God! He gives us the victory because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done.
You mean he has fooled you also the Pharisees asked
When I was angry I made a promise
People who are ungodly run after all those things. Your Father who is in heaven knows that you need them.
But anyone who says yes to the Son belongs to the Father also
The songs of musicians will never be heard in you again.
Then Jesus answered, “Will you really give your life for me?
Is it hard for a camel to go through the eye of a needle It is even harder for someone who is rich to enter Gods kingdom
He ran
Jesus’ Appearance Is Changed
Didnt he make that promise to those who didnt obey
Some believers came to me
They have suffered a great deal But in their suffering their joy was more than full Even though they were very poor they gave very freely
If they have a question about something, they should ask their own husbands at home. It is shameful for women to speak in church meetings.
Not everyone in Abraham’s family line is really his child.
I answered Sir
God did not send his Son into the world to judge the world
They deal only with food and drink and different kinds of special washings They are rules people had to obey only until the new covenant came
It comes from the devil
Go in peace
Hes lazy
I wont even mention that you owe me your life
Walking in the Light
They surrounded the throne
Paul Plans to Visit Rome
Herod had arrested John He had tied him up and put him in prison because of Herodias She was the wife of Herods brother Philip
When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad. They honored the word of the Lord. All who were appointed for eternal life believed.
You have come to Jesus.
The kings of the earth took part in her evil ways The people living on earth were drunk with the wine of her terrible sins
I want to remind you about some things you already know The Lord saved his people At one time he brought them out of Egypt But later he destroyed those who did not believe
People worshiped the dragon because he had given authority to the beastThey also worshiped the beast
They said, “You went into the house of Gentiles. You ate with them.”
We know that our suffering gives us the strength to go on.
The light shines in the darkness.
They held harps given to them by God
Do you understand what I have done for you
“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net. It was let down into the lake. It caught all kinds of fish.
And dont be ashamed of me his prisoner
And if Christ has not been raised your faith doesnt mean anything Your sins have not been forgiven
there is only one Lord He is Jesus Christ All things came because of him and we live because of him
Find out what pleases the Lord.
Fancy hairstyles dont make you beautiful
If your gift is serving, then serve. If it is teaching, then teach.
May grace and peace be given to you
Erastus is the director of public works here in the city
Or is God the God of Jews only? Isn’t he also the God of Gentiles? Yes, he is their God too.
I dont need to write to you about giving to the Lords people
Some people believe them. By doing that they have turned away from the faith.
No outsider dared to join them
After hearing this they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus
I am the Root and the Son of David.
I give a command to those who are married. It is a direct command from the Lord, not from me. A wife must not leave her husband.
Then you should come together again In that way Satan will not tempt you when you cant control yourselves
Those who have not shown mercy will not receive mercy when they are judged. To show mercy is better than to judge.
Mr Lianeg Sh They are preparing for the twenty-seventh time university entrance exam።
Also set an example in how you love
That’s how we should live as we wait for the blessed hope God has given us.
Jesus was leaving the temple. One of his disciples said to him, “Look, Teacher! What huge stones! What wonderful buildings!”
So I take pride in the work I do for God and others.
Here's how we do it.
Christ has set us free to enjoy our freedom. So remain strong in the faith. Don’t let the chains of slavery hold you again.
Everyone who is supposed to be captured will be captured
Then you are guilty of breaking all of it.
Instead, he made himself nothing.
He sends you his greetings. Our brother Quartus also greets you.
Your faith is not under our control. You remain strong in your own faith. But we work together with you for your joy.
And thats not all
I am too busy to go.
I am glad I can have complete faith in you
You didn’t make fun of me.
Have you experienced so much for nothing And was it really for nothing
you will be praised.
They also give thanks to God.
He went to Pilate and asked for Jesus’ body. Pilate ordered that it be given to him.
Hasnt he come here to take them as prisoners to the chief priests
Those who live on the earth will be happy about this.
He is the only God.
I dont pray so that people will see that I have passed the test
Do your best to get here before winter
He hadnt continued with them in their work
Suppose I give everything I have to poor people. And suppose I give myself over to a difficult life so I can brag. If I don’t have love, I get nothing at all.
fine clothes doesnt make you beautiful
Live in a way that shows you have turned away from your sins.
Ask, Search, Knock
He told people all over town how much Jesus had done for him.
Can I help you
Here is what I mean One of you says I follow Paul Another says I follow Apollos Another says I follow Peter And still another says I follow Christ
About fourhundred people followed him
A high priest like that really meets our need He is holy pure and without blame He isnt like other people He does not sin He is lifted high above the heavens
authorities
“Every sea captain and all who travel by ship will stand far away. So will the sailors and all who earn their living from the sea.
“They can’t go back inside their mother! They can’t be born a second time!”
It had all kinds of four-footed animals in it. It also had reptiles and birds in it.
He spent the night praying to God.
Abrham swam
Abraham gave him a tenth of everything. First, the name Melchizedek means “king of what is right.” Also, “king of Salem” means “king of peace.”
No one has ever seen God
The smoke of their terrible suffering will rise for ever and ever. Day and night, there will be no rest for anyone who worships the beast and its statue. There will be no rest for anyone who receives the mark of its name.”
Don’t you know that to be a friend of the world is to hate God?
I know what you are doing I know you arent cold or hot
He sent them to Bethlehem. He said, “Go and search carefully for the child. As soon as you find him, report it to me. Then I can go and worship him too.”
Maybe you think differently about something. But God will make it clear to you.
I heard a car pull up.
Then I remembered the Lord’s words. ‘John baptized with water,’
Holy brothers and sisters God chose you to be his people
While they were at the table eating Jesus said What Im about to tell you is true One of you who is eating with me will hand me over to my enemies
I dont know where they have put him
By reading about this mystery, you will be able to understand what I know. You will know about the mystery of Christ.
I must become less important.
Pauls Concern for the Believers in Galatia
But what you teach must agree with true teaching.
Brothers and sisters, I am sure you remember how hard we worked.
That’s because God has accepted them.
His words won over some of the Jews They joined Paul and Silas
The eternal King will never die
He took away the sins of many people
But then how would the Scriptures come true? They say it must happen in this way.”
They would try to keep the Jewish leaders from arresting me My kingdom is from another place
It was made known to the prophets that they were not serving themselves
MatthewThomasJames son of AlphaeusSimon who was called the Zealot
So they went and made the tomb secure. They put a royal seal on the stone and placed some guards on duty.
Scripture says,
Yes, I tell you, be afraid of him.
And those who know God listen to us.
If he arrives soon, I will come with him to see you.
Philip answered him, “Suppose we were able to buy enough bread for each person to have just a bite. That would take more than half a year’s pay!”
A number of important Greek women also became believers And so did many Greek men
Nobody has ever heard of anyone opening the eyes of a person born blind
It wasnt because of the one who was hurt either
See, I have told you ahead of time.
Birds have nests
Your faith and love are based on the hope you have. What you hope for is stored up for you in heaven.
“Abba, Father,” he said, “everything is possible for you. Take this cup of suffering away from me. But let what you want be done, not what I want.”
But the man who had received one bag went and dug a hole in the ground. He hid his master’s money in it.
And the one who doesn’t eat everything must not judge the person who does.
Many of them said, “He is controlled by a demon.
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my fellow Jews. They have been in prison with me.
The disciples crossed over to the other side of the lake. They had forgotten to take bread.
They are blown along by the wind. They are like trees in the fall.
Others make us suffer. But God does not desert us. We are knocked down. But we are not knocked out.
He is working right up to this day I am working too
These men went on ahead. They waited for us at Troas.
But we want to hear what your ideas are.
You havent come to a blast from Gods trumpet You havent come to a voice speaking to you When people heard that voice long ago they begged it not to say anything more to them
Do you refuse to speak to me
People like that are false apostles They are workers who tell lies They only pretend to be apostles of Christ
His clothes became as bright as a flash of lightning
Jesus replied, “A certain man was preparing a great banquet. He invited many guests.
The dead man came out. His hands and feet were wrapped with strips of linen.
As Jesus went along he saw a man who was blind He had been blind since he was born
Im afraid that when I come I wont find you as I want you to be
But it is raised in power
Lord who has believed what weve been saying
They began to speak in languages they had not known before. The Spirit gave them the ability to do this.
Angels
There were so many that their nets began to break
Then they asked them to leave the city.
Suppose the foot says, “I am not a hand. So I don’t belong to the body.” By saying this, it cannot stop being part of the body.
Jesus was in the back sleeping on a cushion The disciples woke him up They said Teacher Dont you care if we drown
What if every one of them was written down
God called this covenant “new.”
And buy from me healing lotion to put on your eyes
‘I rule on a throne like a queen.
When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you?’
The crowd joined the attack against Paul and Silas. The judges ordered that Paul and Silas be stripped and beaten with rods.
“The first one came to him. He said, ‘Sir, your money has earned ten times as much.’
Christ suffered in his body. So prepare yourselves to think in the same way Christ did. Do this because whoever suffers in their body is finished with sin.
The power of the Most High God will cover you
At last you are concerned about me again That makes me very happy We belong to the Lord I know that you were concerned But you had no chance to show it
So who is it that I hear such things about And he tried to see Jesus
Help one another and agree with one another.
The master will then dress himself so he can serve them
But that is not the way of life in Christ that you learned about.
So God gave his word when he made his promise He wanted to make it very clear that his purpose does not change
Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Holy Spirit.
Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, who we can go to? You have the words of eternal life.
Love never fails But prophecy will pass away Speaking in languages that had not been known before will end And knowledge will pass away
Woman came from man and man is born from woman
To some people the Spirit gives a message of wisdom.
His life was cut off from the earth
They have wandered away from the faith. They have wounded themselves with many sorrows.
You need even the simple truths of God’s word. You need milk, not solid food.
Then Christ will shine on you
No! God knows I do!
There was a man named Demetrius who made things out of silver He made silver models of the temple of the goddess Artemis He brought in a lot of business for the other skilled workers there
I am warning everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book.
The city was made out of pure gold as pure as glass
Instead I pray this so that you will do what is right even if it seems I have failed
Look I am coming soon
He sent them to the Lord. John told them to ask him, “Are you the one who is supposed to come?
Then Christ will live in your hearts because you believe in him. And I pray that your love will have deep roots. I pray that it will have a strong foundation.
Peter Praises God for a Living Hope
Don‘t be proud at all.
So I was afraid I went out and hid your gold in the ground See here is what belongs to you
So will the sailors
Jesus answered, “It is the one I will give this piece of bread to. I will give it to him after I have dipped it in the dish.” He dipped the piece of bread. Then he gave it to Judas, son of Simon Iscariot.
Suppose people lead one of these little ones to sin It would be better for those people to be thrown into the sea with a millstone tied around their neck
But I came with my soldiers and saved him. I had learned that he is a Roman citizen.
Moses is the one who does that. And he is the one you build your hopes on.
The Roman commander saw what had happened He praised God and said Jesus was surely a man who did what was right
Jesus Appears to His Disciples
“How terrible for you! You build tombs for the prophets. It was your people of long ago who killed them.
You also say, ‘If anyone makes a promise in the name of the altar, it means nothing. But anyone who makes a promise in the name of the gift on the altar must keep that promise.’
I am sure he is able to take care of what I have given him. I can trust him with it until the day he returns as judge.
How terrible for you great city gleaming with gold jewels and pearls
Then the evil spirit goes and takes seven other spirits more evil than itself
Love never fails. But prophecy will pass away. Speaking in languages that had not been known before will end. And knowledge will pass away.
While he was going up, they kept on looking at the sky. Suddenly two men dressed in white clothing stood beside them.
The world was not worthy of them They wandered in deserts and mountains They lived in caves They lived in holes in the ground
On one of these journeys I was on my way to Damascus I had the authority and commission of the chief priests
We hear that some people among you don’t want to work and are making trouble.
Jonah was in the belly of a huge fish for three days and three nights Something like that will happen to the Son of Man He will spend three days and three nights in the grave
You could have him back not as a slave. Instead, he would be better than a slave. He would be a dear brother. He is very dear to me but even more dear to you. He is dear to you not only as another human being. He is also dear to you as a brother in the Lord.
I will raise it up again in three days.”
I keep asking him to give you the wisdom and understanding that come from the Holy Spirit I want you to know God better
So they went out and got into the boat.
Here is something to remember.
They also started to argue They disagreed about which of them was thought to be the most important person
But anyone who hates their life in this world will keep it and have eternal life.
I want to keep moving.
What I wrote to you I wrote for a special reason When I came I didnt want to be troubled by those who should make me glad
God’s promise of enjoying his rest still stands. So be careful that none of you fails to receive it.
But anyone who says yes to the Son belongs to the Father also.
The locusts were not allowed to kill these people. But the locusts could hurt them over and over for five months. The pain the people suffered was like the sting of a scorpion when it strikes.
He will destroy those evil people they replied Then he will rent the vineyard out to other renters They will give him his share of the crop at harvest time
Suppose anyone is ashamed of me and my words among these adulterous and sinful people. Then the Son of Man will be ashamed of them when he comes in his Father’s glory with the holy angels.”
The first handful of dough that is offered is holy. This makes all of the dough holy.
In fact, it is just the opposite. God has approved us to preach. He has trusted us with the good news. We aren’t trying to please people. We want to please God. He tests our hearts.
He must be gentle.
It is written
Live in peace.
So suppose you know something is good. Then don’t let it be spoken of as if it were evil.
Then he got down on his knees and prayed
I have been to Rome.
Now I want to say something about virgins I have no direct command from the Lord But I give my opinion Because of the Lords mercy I give it as one who can be trusted
How terrible it is for you great city
It does not easily become angry
Am I not free Am I not an apostle Havent I seen Jesus our Lord Arent you the result of my work for the Lord
We know that you suffer just as we do In the same way God comforts you just as he comforts us
I am Gods servant just like believers who hold firmly to what Jesus has taught
He gave orders to stop the chariot
In Greek it is Apollyon. His name means Destroyer.
He does it so they wont believe Then they cant be saved
I had bragged about you to him
They will know that you yourself obey the law.
Then Jacob went down to Egypt.
But you made me do it
I will make them say in public that I have loved you.
I saw an angel standing in the sun. He shouted to all the birds flying high in the air, “Come! Gather together for the great supper of God.
Right away the believers sent Paul to the coast
So they suggested the names of two men. One was Joseph, who was called Barsabbas. He was also called Justus. The other man was Matthias.
Their voice has gone out into the whole earth
Come near to God, and he will come near to you. Wash your hands, you sinners. Make your hearts pure, you who can’t make up your minds.
It is written in the Prophets God will teach all of them
I wish I were younger
You have kept my command to remain strong in the faith no matter what happens. So I will keep you from the time of suffering.
They found the stone rolled away from it.
And what if we turn away from the one who warns us from heaven? How much less will we escape!
I’m afraid that when I come again my God will put me to shame in front of you. Then I will be sad about many who sinned earlier and have not turned away from it. They have not turned away from uncleanness, sexual sins and wild living. They have done all those things.
The Law was written in letters on stone Even though it was a way of serving God it led to death But even that way of serving God came with glory
We were supposed to stay there Mnason was from Cyprus He was one of the first believers
So he became higher than the angels The name he received is more excellent than theirs
he makes them right with himself. Suppose those who are not circumcised believe in him. Then God also will make them right with himself.
When we came to Macedonia we werent able to rest We were attacked no matter where we went
Night is coming. Then no one can work.
I looked and there in front of me was a white horse
No one can steal them out of my Father’s hand.
So when we can do well to everyone let us do it. Let’s try even harder to do good to the family of believers.
They are rules people had to obey only until the new covenant came
If anyone destroys God’s temple, God will destroy that person.
God’s promise of enjoying his rest still stands.
Don’t have anything to do with godless stories and silly tales.
He talked and argued with the Greek Jews. But they tried to kill him.
He saw the disciples pulling hard on the oars. The wind was blowing against them. Shortly before dawn, he went out to them. He walked on the lake. When he was about to pass by them,
They were filled with fear.
“But you don’t accept it. You don’t think you are good enough for eternal life. So now we are turning to the Gentiles.
As Jesus went on from there two blind men followed him They called out Have mercy on us Son of David
But we love each other And I would rather appeal to you on the basis of that love
From Paphos, Paul and his companions sailed to Perga in Pamphylia.
There is no reason for it So we wouldnt be able to explain what has happened
Ugly and painful sores broke out on people
Blessed are those who suffer for doing what is right.
curved blade for cutting grain
No widow should be put on the list of widows unless she is more than  years old
Jesus said to them How foolish you are How long it takes you to believe all that the prophets said
Jesus said, “Then I won’t tell you by what authority I am doing these things either.
“Suppose a servant knows the master’s wishes. But the servant doesn’t get ready and doesn’t do what the master wants.
You have not given up.
The soldiers twisted thorns together to make a crown. They put it on Jesus’ head. Then they put a purple robe on him.
So the churches were made strong in the faith. The number of believers grew every day.
I want to see a movie
and be separatesays the Lord
“We must go through many hard times to enter God’s kingdom,” they said.
It does not dishonor other people
Dear friends remember what the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ said would happen
They told Aaron, ‘Make us a god who will lead us. This fellow Moses brought us up out of Egypt. But we don’t know what has happened to him!’
Suppose he feeds himself And suppose he drinks until he gets drunk
He ordered the commander to keep Paul under guard. He told him to give Paul some freedom. He also told him to allow Paul’s friends to take care of his needs.
The disciples answered We have only five loaves of bread and two fish
They have torn down your altars.
That’s also why you pay taxes.
Wives, follow the lead of your own husbands. Suppose some of them don’t believe God’s word. Then let them be won to Christ without words by seeing how their wives behave.
Now it is time for the world to be judged.
I am glad to see that you are controlling yourselves. I am happy that your faith in Christ is so strong.
You think you’re helping blind people. You think you are a light for those in the dark.
Im going to the bank
Large crowds were traveling with Jesus. He turned and spoke to them.
Lord they answered we want to be able to see
and the time for your anger has come
Thats the way it is with you Now its your time to be sad
the message that is heard is the message about Christ.
They are liars. Their worship comes from Satan. I will make them come and fall down at your feet.
We are those people. He has chosen us. We do not come only from the Jewish race. Many of us are not Jews.
John Alexander and other people in the high priests family
But now you know God.
He forgave us all our sins.
As the soldiers led Jesus away, they took hold of Simon. Simon was from Cyrene. He was on his way in from the country. They put a wooden cross on his shoulders. Then they made him carry it behind Jesus.
I tell you many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see
take the sword of the Holy Spirit
You should have praised me
What should we say then? Should we keep on sinning so that God’s grace can increase?
Give him thanks and honor and power and strength
If any of these things has happened to you then agree with one another Have the same love Be one in spirit and in the way you think and act By doing this you will make my joy complete
and Laodicea
He dipped the piece of bread Then he gave it to Judas son of Simon Iscariot
Early in the morning Jesus was on his way back to Jerusalem He was hungry
They called out in a loud voice. “How long, Lord and King, holy and true?” they asked. “How long will you wait to judge those who live on the earth? How long will it be until you pay them back for killing us?”
Jesus replied, “If I bring glory to myself, my glory means nothing.
Did he becomes right with God because of something he did
An Example From Marriage
When the Friend comes to help you he will be a witness about me
No one has greater love than the one who gives their life for their friends
If so I have forgiven it for your benefit knowing that Christ is watching
Many people have attempted to write about the things that have taken place among us.
Here is what Christ wants us to beg you to do Come back to God
At the same time, the  elders fall down and worship the one who sits on the throne. He lives for ever and ever.
They were also given to his seed Scripture does not say and to seeds
Then Peter began to curse and said to them, “I don’t know the man!”
Jesus had been speaking about the death of Lazarus
So I do not run like someone who doesnt run toward the finish line I do not fight like a boxer who hits nothing but air
But only a few of them will be saved.
It came with the Holy Spirit’s help.
It is a mist that appears for a little while Then it disappears
Change your joy to sadness
I can do nothing by myself I judge only as I hear
Christ set us free from the curse of the law He did it by becoming a curse for us
God has saved us.
God began a good work in you
Another says I follow Peter
Here is what the disciples said to him. “If that’s the way it is between a husband and wife, it is better not to get married.”
He does not keep the Sabbath day.”
If someone there works to bring peace, your blessing of peace will rest on them.
Everyone went to their own town to be listed
“He suffered the things we should have suffered.He took on himself the sicknesses that should have been ours.”
The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed. ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other people,’ he said. ‘I am not like robbers or those who do other evil things. I am not like those who commit adultery. I am not even like this tax collector.
What the Father does the Son also does
We have preached that Christ has been raised from the dead. So how can some of you say that no one rises from the dead?
Then the day of the banquet arrived. He sent his servant to those who had been invited. The servant told them, ‘Come. Everything is ready now.’
Put up with one another.
God’s Son will receive glory because of it.”
tell me something
God gave Christ as a sacrifice to pay for sins through the spilling of his blood. So God forgives the sins of those who have faith. God did all this to prove that he does what is right. He is a God of mercy. So he did not punish for their sins the people who lived before Jesus lived.
Her mother told her what to say. So the girl said to Herod, “Give me the head of John the Baptist on a big plate.”
How is it that now he can see
There is no slave or free person But Christ is everything And he is in everything
Are you the king of the Jews asked Pilate
There will be blood and fire and clouds of smoke
All things were created in him. He created everything in heaven and on earth. He created everything that can be seen and everything that can’t be seen. He created kings, powers, rulers and authorities. All things have been created by him and for him.
After his father died, God sent Abraham to this land where you are now living.
Christ himself is our peace. He has made Jews and Gentiles into one group of people. He has destroyed the hatred that was like a wall between us.
After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven He had great authority His glory filled the earth with light
Stand up to the devil.
Shouldnt you have thrown out of your church the man doing this
God has shown me amazing and wonderful things People should not think more of me because of it So I wouldnt become proud of myself I was given a problem
The law was given through angels and a go-between was put in charge of it
The members of the church in Babylon send you their greetings
When all of them were quiet he spoke to them in the Aramaic language
Then a mighty angel picked up a huge rock It was the size of a large millstone He threw it into the sea Then he said
So we also believe and speak
The men who lived there recognized Jesus So they sent a message all over the nearby countryside People brought all those who were sick to Jesus
Then Jesus parents brought the child in They came to do for him what the Law required
You can learn from us the meaning of the saying Dont go beyond what is written
You learned the good news from Epaphras He is dear to us He serves Christ together with us He faithfully works for Christ and for us among you
He has anointed me
Leave her alone Jesus said Why are you bothering her She has done a beautiful thing to me
Paul Prays and Gives Thanks
But there are some of you who do not believe.” Jesus had known from the beginning which of them did not believe. And he had known who was going to hand him over to his enemies.
Glory and power belong to Jesus Christ for ever and ever!
One person considers one day to be more holy than another.
When Jesus said this, he called out, “Whoever has ears should listen.”
Birds have nests.
Jesus Curses a Fig Tree and Clears Out the Temple Courtyard
Suppose you love those who love you Should anyone praise you for that
They were poor. They were attacked. They were treated badly.
But the news about Jesus spread even more.
Large crowds followed him. He healed them there.
Test the spirits to see if they belong to God.
King David says the same thing He tells us how blessed people are when God makes them right with himself They are blessed because they dont have to do anything in return David says
I am sure he is able to take care of what I have given him I can trust him with it until the day he returns as judge
The Lord is not slow to keep his promise. He is not slow in the way some people understand it. Instead, he is patient with you.
My weapons have the power of God to destroy the camps of the enemy.
We don’t put anything in anyone’s way. So no one can find fault with our work for God.
If he werent how could he judge the world
But each person is tempted by their own evil desires These desires lead them on and drag them away
“Yes,” they replied.
Give, and it will be given to you. A good amount will be poured into your lap.
The Holy Spirit proved that he was the Son of God.
We know what love is because Jesus Christ gave his life for us. So we should give our lives for our brothers and sisters.
He was sitting at Jesus feet He was dressed and thinking clearly All this made the people afraid
I try to get in but someone else always goes down ahead of me
He will announce that he himself is God
If you do not find others guilty then you will not be found guilty
So they decided to use the money to buy a potter’s field. People from other countries would be buried there.
You know how patient I am.
No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven He is the Son of Man
So Herod called together all the chief priests of the people. He also called the teachers of the law. He asked them where the Messiah was going to be born.
You dont know anything at all
Do you think I can’t ask my Father for help? He would send an army of more than sevety thoused angels right away.
The Lord first announced this salvation
We are known but people treat us as if we were unknown
“A time is coming when you will be scattered and go to your own homes.
That’s because you did not believe my words.
When they arrived he spoke to them You know how I lived the whole time I was with you he said From the first day I came into Asia Minor
Then she is called a woman who commits adultery. But suppose her husband dies. Then she is free from that law. She is not guilty of adultery if she marries another man.
He's a DJ.
This life has appeared. We have seen him. We are witnesses about him. And we announce to you this same eternal life. He was already with the Father. He has appeared to us.
We gave you hope and strength
But you are stubborn In your heart you are not sorry for your sins You are storing up anger against yourself The day of Gods anger is coming Then his way of judging fairly will be shown
Don’t you know that your bodies belong to the body of Christ? Should I take what belongs to Christ and join it to a prostitute? Never!
We know that the whole world is under the control of the evil one.
Everyone who has heard the Father and learned from him comes to me.
They left that place and passed through Galilee Jesus did not want anyone to know where they were
The prophets words agree with that They say
But we sailed from Philippi after the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Five days later we joined the others at Troas. We stayed there for seven days.
Then Jesus rolled up the scroll. He gave it back to the attendant and sat down.
I have done this so that in all possible ways I might save some.
They do not understand They cant be trusted They are not loving and kind
Eat the bodies of horses and their riders.
When you pray, be faithful.
Get rid of all hard feelings, anger and rage. Stop all fighting and lying. Don’t have anything to do with any kind of hatred.
You yourselves have not entered.
When a person works their pay is not considered a gift It is owed to them
So he now loved them to the very end.
Do you believe this?”
They said, “Prophesy!” And the guards took him and beat him.
After this the family line continuedJeconiah was the father of ShealtielShealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel
The house was filled with the sweet smell of the perfume.
Get up Roll up your mat
You have heard that the spirit of the great enemy of Christ is coming
He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God
Those things lead to death!
We have seen him
And since that time, he waits for his enemies to be put under his control.
Im still your friend
I will say it again. Don’t let anyone think I’m a fool. But if you do, put up with me just as you would put up with a fool. Then I can do a little bragging.
They love to be greeted with respect in the markets. They love it when people call them ‘Rabbi.’
You agree with what is best because the law teaches you
Understanding the Meaning of What Is Happening
So live as outsiders during your time here
you all together are that temple
I said, ‘They will never enjoy the rest I planned for them.’ ”
They might hear with their ears.
Is there any advantage in being a Jew? Is there any value in being circumcised?
It is written He was counted among those who had committed crimes I tell you that what is written about me must come true Yes it is already coming true
Once more Jesus felt very sad. He came to the tomb.
He saw the strips of linen lying there.
After this Jesus appeared to his disciples again It was by the Sea of Galilee
The dead man came out His hands and feet were wrapped with strips of linen
I have heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus. I have also heard about your love for all God’s people. That is why
Who is Eating the Rub?
In everything I did I showed you that we must work hard and help the weak We must remember the words of the Lord Jesus He said It is more blessed to give than to receive
He is the first to be raised from the dead. That happened so that he would be far above everything.
“ ‘These people honor me by what they say, But their hearts are far away from me.
Evil spirits screamed and came out of many people.
You have not done all that my God wants you to do
Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, and his hand had become as good as new.
The two men took Jesus’ body. They wrapped it in strips of linen cloth, along with the spices. That was the way the Jews buried people.
I live because of him
Lord I replied these people know what I used to do I went from one synagogue to another and put believers in prison I also beat them
So then, here is what I say about eating food sacrificed to statues of gods. We know that “a god made by human hands is really nothing at all in the world.” We know that “there is only one God.”
The Letter to the Church in Laodicea
And anyone who welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me.
His master felt sorry for him He forgave him what he owed and let him go
You have all renewed his spirit.
He told her, “Go. Get your husband and come back.”
God makes his angels to be like spirits
“What do you want me to do for you?” he asked.
Carry one anothers heavy loads If you do you will fulfill the law of Christ
Christ’s love controls us. We are sure that one person died for everyone. And so everyone died.
They said to her,
Those who had seen it told them what had happened to the man. They told about the pigs as well.
Get up Let us go Here comes the one who is handing me over to them
She had a sister named Mary. Mary sat at the Lord’s feet listening to what he said.
Moses was taught all the knowledge of the people of Egypt. He became a powerful speaker and a man of action.
I tell you not one of those people who were invited will get a taste of my banquet
And don’t eat because of a sense of what is right and wrong.
He was with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai. Moses was with our people of long ago.
Keep watch over yourselves. Keep watch over all the believers. The Holy Spirit has made you leaders over them.
No one could give any answer to him From that day on no one dared to ask him any more questions
Then he said,
One persons faith allows them to eat anything
Where did this man get these things they asked Whats this wisdom that has been given to him What are these remarkable miracles he is doing
Be sure that you complete the work the Lord gave you to do
So the one who plants is not important. The one who waters is not important. It is God who makes things grow. He is the important one.
It is fine to be committed to something, if the purpose is good. And you shouldn’t be committed only when I am with you. You should always be committed.
In the morning the soldiers were bewildered They couldnt figure out what had happened to Peter
Paul Warns Those Who Do Not Want to Work
The Sign of Jonah
after that time, says the Lord.
After Paul said this, he took some bread and gave thanks to God. He did this where they all could see him. Then he broke it and began to eat.
The apostles and the believers all through Judea heard that Gentiles had also received Gods word
Am I now trying to get people to think well of me Or do I want God to think well of me Am I trying to please people If I were I would not be serving Christ
strength
They have followed the way of Cain.
If you don’t remain joined to me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and dries up.
Ask the people who heard me
So how can you say Show us the Father
But Elijah was not sent to any of those widows
But Jesus made no reply, not even to a single charge. The governor was really amazed.
The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men
The fifth was made out of onyx
When I was a child I talked like a child I thought like a child I had the understanding of a child When I became a man I put the ways of childhood behind me
Then you will be blessed YOur guests cant pay you back But you will be paid back when those who are right with God rise from the dead
he is always fair
As you can tell I am just using human ways of thinking
So they took away the stone
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Ephesus
Or who can ever give him advice?”
The wine will run out, and the wineskins will be destroyed.
Hes always smiling
There is no fear in love Instead perfect love drives away fear Thats because fear has to do with being punished The one who fears does not have perfect love
Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection The second death has no power over them They will be priests of God and of Christ They will rule with him for one thoused years
You have heard that it was said Do not commit adultery
As you deal with one another, you should think and act as Jesus did.
And it was night
No We believe we are saved through the grace of our Lord Jesus The Gentiles are saved in the same way
God will judge the earth and everything done in it.
So let us come near to God with a sincere heart.
Hasnt anyone found you guilty
We speak about what we know
There he stayed for three months. He was just about to sail for Syria.
But Christ did not enter heaven to offer himself again and again
outside is everyone who loves and does what is false.
So make sure that the light inside you is not darkness.
They wore gold strips of cloth around their chests.
Forgive, just as the Lord forgave you.
So then the man who marries the virgin does the right thing
But when what is complete comes the things that are not complete will pass away
It should be accepted completely
Godly Jews from every country in the world were staying in Jerusalem
If any of you needs wisdom; you should ask God for it. He will give it to you. God gives freely to everyone and doesn’t find fault.
My brothers and sisters, can a fig tree produce olives? Can a grapevine produce figs? Of course not. And a saltwater spring can’t produce fresh water either.
Daughters will refuse to obey their mothers.
At one time we looked at Christ in that way. But we don’t anymore.
Instead gather for yourselves riches in heaven There moths and rats do not destroy them There thieves do not break in and steal them
So God does what he wants to do.
But when they arrest you dont worry about what you will say or how you will say it At that time you will be given the right words to say
A voice came from the cloud It said This is my Son and I have chosen him Listen to him
I want you to be wise about what is good
In the past, God gave us grace through the Law of Moses. Now, grace and truth come to us through Jesus Christ.
When Peter came to Antioch, I told him to his face that I was against what he was doing. He was clearly wrong.
I want you to be free to live in a way that is right. I want you to give yourselves completely to the Lord.
Then the people began to beg Jesus to leave their area
You are Israels teacher said Jesus Dont you understand these things
They rubbed them in their hands and ate them
Suppose he begins to beat the other slaves. And suppose he eats and drinks with those who drink too much.
So I will send you away from your country.’
It also includes hatred and
If you don’t, I will come to you soon.
Paul Goes to Ephesus
They were going to name him Zechariah like his father
And Sarah had faith So God made it possible for her to become a mother
I am not writing this to shame you You are my dear children and I want to warn you
Paul and Barnabas Do Not Agree
But I ask Didnt the people of Israel hear Of course they did It is written
I was circumcised on the eighth day I am part of the people of Israel I am from the tribe of Benjamin I am a pure Hebrew As far as the law is concerned I am a Pharisee
Our Lord Jesus Christ has made that clear to me.
Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas the high priest The teachers of the law and the elders had come together there
Even though the doors were locked, Jesus came in and stood among them. He said, “May peace be with you!”
It will be good for the slave if the master finds him doing his job when the master returns
The other Jews said the same thing They agreed that the charges were true
I am suffering for it I have even been put in chains like someone who has committed a crime
And dont start saying to yourselves Abraham is our father
I told them the good news that I preach among the Gentiles
‘And you can be just as sure that everyone will kneel down in front of me.
Anyone you forgive I also forgive. Was there anything to forgive? If so, I have forgiven it for your benefit, knowing that Christ is watching.
Then Jesus looked at the people sitting in a circle around him.Hesaid,
May Onesiphorus find mercy from the Lord on the day Jesus returns as judge!
You can’t come where I am going.”
A man named Barabbas was in prison He was there with some other people who had fought against the countrys rulers They had committed murder while they were fighting against the rulers
“Be dressed and ready to serve.
That is a deep mystery But Im talking about Christ and the church
As the soldiers led Jesus away they took hold of Simon Simon was from Cyrene He was on his way in from the country They put a wooden cross on his shoulders Then they made him carry it behind Jesus
So God does what he wants to do. He shows mercy to one person and makes another stubborn.
Did what is good cause me to die Not at all Sin had to be recognized for what it really is
Then you will completely understand every good thing we share by believing in Christ.
Long ago God planned that Jesus would be handed over to you. With the help of evil people,
They asked Jesus, “Are you the one who is supposed to come? Or should we look for someone else?”
It always hopes.
About noon, King Agrippa, I was on the road.
Here is the command God has given us Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister
You do not know him.
They asked one last time Who are you
Here is the law I find working in me. When I want to do good, evil is right there with me.
But I will not be controlled by anything.
I can't find my pen.
Paul came to Derbe Then he went on to Lystra
The message of the cross seems foolish to those who are lost and dying
This kind of bragging is evil.
smoke
Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters in Laodicea
Watch out that you dont lose what we have worked for Make sure that you get your full reward
I am glad to see that you are controlling yourselves I am happy that your faith in Christ is so strong
The we found on the health station, said Gebrei Yeezghiba , a kebele resident who said that while this study started to be serviced, we are not getting full health care።
Suppose a brother has a wife who is not a believer. If she is willing to live with him, he must not divorce her.
The secret power of sin is already at work
But anyone who lives by the truth comes into the light. They live by the truth with God’s help. They come into the light so that it will be easy to see their good deeds.
“You are the light of the world. A town built on a hill can’t be hidden.
You see the people his disciples answered They are crowding against you And you still ask Who touched me
We have seen him.
We gave you clear orders not to teach in Jesus name he said
About three hours later, the wife of Ananias came in. She didn’t know what had happened.
Then I will receive you
It cuts deep enough to separate soul from spirit
I will put my laws in their hearts.
The God who gives peace brought him back from the dead. He did it because of the blood of the eternal covenant.
Not too far away, Peter followed Jesus. He went right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see what would happen.
whose sin the Lord never counts against them.”
Zechariahs Song
Are they Hebrews? So am I.
Jesus had been speaking about the death of Lazarus.
They will all come out of their graves. People who have done what is good will rise
The Lord will pay him back for what he has done.
In another place God said
Peter stayed in Joppa for some time He stayed with Simon a man who worked with leather
I planted the seed.
He listened as Paul spoke.
She was a Greek born in Syrian Phoenicia She begged Jesus to drive the demon out of her daughter
But he did not sin
I beg you to accept my word. It tells you to be faithful. Accept my word because I have written to you only a short letter.
In the same way, the tongue is a small part of a person’s body. But it talks big. Think about how a small spark can set a big forest on fire.
All these are the beginning of birth pains.
What Im about to tell you is true All this will happen to those who are now living
The Lord answered him, “You pretenders! Doesn’t each of you go to the barn and untie your ox or donkey on the Sabbath day? Then don’t you lead it out to give it water?
The locusts looked like horses ready for battle On their heads they wore something like crowns of gold Their faces looked like human faces
So we don’t have to say anything about it.
Dont speak against God Thats what some of the people of Israel did And they were killed by the destroying angel
If the dead are not raised,
Jesus Heals Sick People
Now we who have believed enjoy that rest God said
How did God answer him? God said,
We took a very bad beating from the storm. The next day the crew began to throw the ship’s contents overboard.
Who Is the Most Important Person in the Kingdom?
I am the living bread that came down from heaven. Everyone who eats some of this bread will live forever. This bread is my body. I will give it for the life of the world.”
But the one whom God raised from the dead did not rot away.
No Let them come themselves and personally lead us out
There were men guarding Jesus They began laughing at him and beating him
They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any plant or tree.
Who are these people dressed in white robes
And you are proud Shouldnt you be very sad instead
“Do not cry!
Whoever has ears should listen.
faith
“A prophet is not accepted in his hometown.
A persons body without their spirit is dead
He sent his slaves to those who had been invited to the dinner. The slaves told them to come. But they refused.
But the Father will send the Friend in my name to help you The Friend is the Holy Spirit He will teach you all things He will remind you of everything I have said to you
When his time of service was over he returned home
Gods grace has saved you because of your faith in Christ Your salvation doesnt come from anything you do It is Gods gift
I thought like a child.
He is a guest in the home of another Simon who works with leather He lives by the sea
That comes as no surprise
You can say to this mountain Move from here to there And it will move Nothing will be impossible for you
In the same way Christ was offered up once
Aren’t his brothers James, Joseph, Simon and Judas?
But God gives the seed a body just as he has planned And to each kind of seed he gives its own body
A great sign appeared in heaven.
Again the Jews who had challenged him picked up stones to kill him.
Peter said many other things to warn them. He begged them, “Save yourselves from these evil people.”
God has given me the grace to lay a foundation as a wise builder. Now someone else is building on it. But each one should build carefully.
You will see heaven open You will see the angels of God going up and coming down on the Son of Man
The person who does what is sinful belongs to the devil. That’s because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. But the Son of God came to destroy the devil’s work.
great and small
It promises help for the life you are now living and the life to come
suppose I give myself over to a difficult life so I can brag.
Don’t you have homes to eat and drink in? You are shaming those in the church who have nothing. Do you think so little of God’s church that you do this? What should I say to you? Should I praise you? Certainly not about the Lord’s Supper!
What do right and wrong have in common
We are also sending it to our sister Apphia and to Archippus.
People are considered to be right with God only when they obey the law
Paul and those traveling with him passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia. They came to Thessalonica. A Jewish synagogue was there.
“I have shown you to the disciples you gave me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me. And they have obeyed your word.
Another horse came out. It was red like fire. Its rider was given power to take peace from the earth. He was given power to make people kill each other. He was given a large sword.
Then they will hand him over to the Gentiles. The people will make fun of him and whip him. They will nail him to a cross. On the third day, he will rise from the dead!”
All the people in the synagogue were very angry when they heard that.
The churches in Asia Minor send you greetings.
Here is the law I find working in me
So what are you waiting for
They were burned by the blazing heat So they spoke evil things against the name of God who controlled these plagues But they refused to turn away from their sins They did not give glory to God
Anyone who has been stealing must never steal again Instead they must work
By creating conflict by destroying order seeking self-imposed power does not make a difference ።
“Watch out! You will be handed over to the local courts. You will be whipped in the synagogues. You will stand in front of governors and kings because of me. In that way you will be witnesses to them.
We worked very hard so that we wouldnt cause any expense to any of you
Those who were standing near Paul spoke to him. They said, “How dare you talk like that to God’s high priest!”
Make sure that you dont forget what you have heard from the beginning
The Lord told him, “Go to the house of Judas on Straight Street. Ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul.
What should I say
“ ‘No, father Abraham,’ he said. ‘But if someone from the dead goes to them, they will turn away from their sins.’
LUKE
“The man had one person left to send. It was his son, and he loved him. He sent him last of all. He said, ‘They will respect my son.’
Suppose he feeds himself. And suppose he drinks until he gets drunk.
Your strength to continue comes from your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ
Stay excited about your faith as you serve the Lord.
So if anyone tells you He is a long way out in the desert do not go out there Or if anyone says He is deep inside the house do not believe it
Jesus told him Go and do as he did
So he went to the man who took care of the vineyard
He gave them ears that could not hear.
Stop drinking only water. If your stomach is upset, drink a little wine. It can also help the other sicknesses you often have.
After this I saw four angels. They were standing at the four corners of the earth. They were holding back the four winds of the earth. This kept the winds from blowing on the land or the sea or on any tree.
I do not pray that you will take them out of the world I pray that you will keep them safe from the evil one
I pray for them I am not praying for the world
He did it to bring her to himself as a brightly shining church He wants a church that has no stain or wrinkle or any other flaw He wants a church that is holy and without blame
You are a priest forever
On each head was an evil name that brought shame to God.
Ungodly people are surprised that you no longer join them in what they do. They want you to join them in their wild and wasteful living. So they say bad things about you.
People hear the message about the kingdom but do not understand it. Then the evil one comes. He steals what was planted in their hearts. Those people are like the seed planted on a path.
But everyone who is completely trained will be like their teacher.
The temple was filled with smoke that came from the glory and power of God. No one could enter the temple at that time. They had to wait until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.
Peter kept on knocking
Jesus said to them What Im about to tell you is true
Jesus Washes His Disciples Feet
Abraham was past the time when he could have children But many children came from that one man
Aboutfour thousend people were there After Jesus sent them away
A Warning to Pay Attention
When the dead rise, they won’t get married. And their parents won’t give them to be married. They will be like the angels in heaven.
Do not want what belongs to others
Don’t try to stop what the Holy Spirit is doing.
Come near to God,
Some are for special purposes Others are for ordinary use
Paul Arrives in Jerusalem
So the man went away. In the area known as the Ten Cities, he began to tell how much Jesus had done for him. And all the people were amazed.
But whoever loses their life for me will save it
which says, “a pair of doves or two young pigeons.”
My eyes have seen your salvation
In fact here is what it means to love God We love him by obeying his commands
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast The kingdom of the beast became very dark People chewed on their tongues because they were suffering so much
Barnabas and Saul finished their task. Then they returned from Jerusalem. They took John Mark with them.
Even a sinner lends to sinners expecting them to pay everything back
But here is how things are for those who belong to the Lord Woman is not independent of man And man is not independent of woman
But Jesus remained silent He gave no answer
The teachings of the Law and the Prophets were preached until John the Baptist came Since then the good news of Gods kingdom is being preached And everyone is trying very hard to enter it
People Dont Agree About Who Jesus Is
That’s because it has been made impure by the desire for things that lead you astray.
Jesus said to them, “Come and have breakfast.”
But he didnt do the same thing back to them
Gentiles did not look for a way to be right with God
Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.” There was plenty of grass in that place, and they sat down. About five thousend men were there.
Another Challenge to Jesus’ Claims
Their own actions judge them.
This is Jesus, the King of the Jews.
But it will not be like that when the dead rise Those who are considered worthy to take part in the world to come wont get married And their parents wont give them to be married
We will all stand in Gods courtroom to be judged
Obey it until our Lord Jesus Christ appears. Obey it completely. Then no one can find fault with it or you.
And he came home able to see.
You have taken away the key to the door of knowledge
I thought things like that were really something great. But now I consider them to be nothing because of Christ.
This is the bread that came down from heaven.
We know that we are children of God
“We are not throwing stones at you for any good work,” they replied. “We are stoning you for saying a very evil thing.
Abraham said to him They do not listen to Moses and the Prophets So they will not be convinced even if someone rises from the dead
That is why I said what the Holy Spirit receives from me he will show to you
you will be praised
Go away
The woman you saw stands for the great city of Babylon. That city rules over the kings of the earth.”
Then she turned around and saw Jesus standing there
That’s because Adam was made first. Then Eve was made.
It is more than you can handle right now.
MATTHEW 
They deal only with food and drink and different kinds of special washings.
He thought to himself What should I do
Paul Longs to Visit Rome
In many ways he proved that he was alive
No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us. His love is made complete in us.
Everything written in the past was written to teach us The Scriptures give us strength to go on They encourage us and give us hope
Then an angel of the Lord appeared to Zechariah. The angel was standing at the right side of the incense altar.
But circumcision did not really come from Moses
Then he could serve God as a kind and faithful high priest.
And he will prepare the way for the Lord.
I am Gods servant just like the other prophets And I serve God along with all who obey the words of this book
So be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect.
How terrible for you mighty city of Babylon
I am the Alpha and the Omega.
If it pleases the Lord
Then Jesus took the loaves and gave thanks He handed out the bread to those who were seated He gave them as much as they wanted
In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the law made fun of him among themselves. “He saved others,” they said. “But he can’t save himself!
Pilate spoke to them for the third time. “Why?” he asked. “What wrong has this man done? I have found no reason to have him put to death. So I will just have him whipped and let him go.”
How can they call on him unless they believe in him?
In that case, the believer does not have to stay married to the unbeliever.
Give praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! He is the Father who gives tender love. All comfort comes from him.
They have lost all feeling for what is right. So they have given themselves over to all kinds of evil pleasures. They take part in every kind of unclean act. And they are full of greed.
Even people who dont know God dont let that kind of sin continue
He will speak only what he hears
But the church prayed hard to God for him
weep
Here is what I’m telling you. I am speaking for the Lord as I warn you. You must no longer live as the Gentiles do. Their thoughts don’t have any purpose.
Dear friends, you have already been warned about this. So be on your guard. Then you won’t be led astray by people who don’t obey the law. Instead, you will remain safe.
Our Lord Jesus Christ has made that clear to me
Follow him.
When you pray, go into your room. Close the door and pray to your Father, who can’t be seen. Your Father will reward you, because he sees what you do secretly.
Saul got up from the ground. He opened his eyes, but he couldn’t see.
A man named Simon was passing by. He was from Cyrene. He was the father of Alexander and Rufus. Simon was on his way in from the country. The soldiers forced him to carry the cross.
Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not want what belongs to others. It does not brag. It is not proud.
Suppose you have not been worthy of trust in handling someone elses propertyThen who will give you property of your own
He thought to himself, ‘What should I do?
Their bodies will lie in the main street of the great city.
Titus is my helper He and I work together among you Our brothers are messengers from the churches They honor Christ
“What happens when an evil spirit comes out of a person? It goes through dry areas looking for a place to rest. But it doesn’t find it. Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I left.’
It can separate bones from joints
Greet Apelles He remained faithful to Christ even when he was tested
Then he adds,
He too had a sharp curved blade
They made Jason and the others give them money. The officials did this to make sure they would return to the court. Then they let Jason and the others go.
Jesus said to them I did one miracle
You received Christ Jesus as Lord. So keep on living your lives in him.
If we are having trouble it is so that you will be comforted and renewed If we are comforted it is so that you will be comforted
Suppose someone refuses to accept our teaching. They are not turning their back on us. They are turning their back on God. This same God gives you his Holy Spirit.
Some people believe them
They can’t agree about what words mean.
We belong to God And those who know God listen to us But those who dont belong to God dont listen to us Thats how we can tell the difference between the Spirit of truth and the spirit of lies
Fancy hairstyles dont make you beautiful Wearing gold jewelry or fine clothes doesnt make you beautiful
He heard things there that couldn’t be put into words.
Our words are different from the wisdom of this world.
He chose us to receive salvation because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done.
He must manage his children and family well.
The man runs away because he is a hired man. He does not care about the sheep.
But his disciples thought he meant natural sleep.
So they filled them to the top
Even Christ did not please himself.
I want to go to Italy
He comforts us in all our troubles Now we can comfort others when they are in trouble We ourselves receive comfort from God
At that moment the temple curtain was torn in two from top to bottom The earth shook The rocks split
When they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.
Did you meet Abrham
It cant be changed after it has been made
Then they believed the Scripture They also believed the words that Jesus had spoken
You have come to Jesus. He is the go-between of a new covenant. You have come to the sprinkled blood. It promises better things than the blood of Abel.
“It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega,
Through faith in Jesus we have received God’s grace. In that grace we stand. We are full of joy because we expect to share in God’s glory.
So there were  generations from Abraham to David. There were  from David until the Jewish people were forced to go away to Babylon. And there were  from that time to the Messiah.Joseph Accepts Jesus as His Son
A man unable to walk was being carried to the temple gate called Beautiful
I will let that person eat from the tree of life in Gods paradise
They made a charge against Paul They said This man is talking people into worshiping God in wrong ways Those ways are against the law
“Take away the stone,” he said.
Not even Solomon in his royal robes was dressed like one of those flowers
who is holy and true.
All of this proves that when God judges, he is fair. So you will be considered worthy to enter God’s kingdom. You are suffering for his kingdom.
The first man came from the dust of the earth.
Our words are different from the wisdom of this world
Every day Jesus was teaching at the temple. But the chief priests and the teachers of the law were trying to kill him. So were the leaders among the people.
Jesus became wiser and stronger
They will believe things that demons will teach them.
So some men came carrying a man who could not walk He was lying on a mat
Jesus and his disciples were leaving Jericho A large crowd followed him
Im a man
God chose us to belong to Christ before the world was created He chose us to be holy and without blame in his eyes He loved us
I am talking to you who are not Jews. I am the apostle to the Gentiles. So I take pride in the work I do for God and others.
You must understand something. Suppose the owner of the house knew what time of night the robber was coming. Then he would have kept watch. He would not have let his house be broken into.
The apostles were full of joy as they left the Sanhedrin. They considered it an honor to suffer shame for the name of Jesus.
people will stare at their bodies
Every wrong thing we do is sin. But there are sins that do not lead to death.
The merchants will say The pleasure you longed for has left you All your riches and glory have disappeared forever
They also said many other things to make fun of him
But some of them went to the Pharisees They told the Pharisees what Jesus had done
You will be brought before synagogues rulers and authorities But do not worry about how to stand up for yourselves or what to say
Then the angel spoke to me You saw the waters the prostitute sits on he said They stand for all the nations of the world no matter what their race or language is
But some of them said He opened the eyes of the blind man Couldnt he have kept this man from dying
All day long I have held out my hands
But just as sure as God is faithful, our message to you is not “Yes” and “No.”
Some seed fell on rocky places where there wasnt much soil The plants came up quickly because the soil wasnt deep
It is for those who arent holy and who dont believe
“Twelve,” they replied.
So his faith made him right with God
They will mourn because they used to share her riches. They will see the smoke rising as she burns.
To this day when the Law of Moses is read a veil covers the minds of those who hear it
Dont you know that you yourselves are Gods temple Dont you know that Gods Spirit lives among you
When Jesus was tewelve years old they went up to the feast as usual
“Who touched me?” Jesus asked.
Every spirit agreeing that Jesus Christ came in a human body belongs to God
The master will then dress himself so he can serve them.
Jesus and the two of them talked together
Every tongue will have to tell the truth about God.’ ”
Then Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus.
“That is how it will be for whoever stores things away for themselves but is not rich in the sight of God.”
In the same way, consider you to be dead as far as sin is concerned.
“My Father has given all things to me. The Father is the only one who knows the Son. And the only ones who know the Father are the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to make him known.
Work for food that lasts forever That is the food the Son of Man will give you
John had been saying to Herod It is against the Law for you to have her as your wife
Jesus took the  disciples to one side He told them We are going up to Jerusalem Everything that the prophets wrote about the Son of Man will come true
There were also Andrew,Philip,Bartholomew,Matthew,Thomas,and James, son of Alphaeus.And there were Thaddaeusand Simon the Zealot.
You will be thrown out of the synagogue
Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection.
We sang a funeral song,But you didn’t cry.’
Everyone who sins breaks the law.
Suppose we claim we are without sin. Then we are fooling ourselves.
What I’m about to tell you is true. The master will put that slave in charge of everything he owns.
If the whole body were an ear how could it smell
Then God will add to that person the plagues told about in this book.
“Be careful. If you aren’t, your hearts will be loaded down with wasteful living, drunkenness and the worries of life. Then the day the Son of Man returns will close on you like a trap. It will happen suddenly.
But others said We want to hear you speak about this again
Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love.
Never again will it be found.
The message is near you
The fourth was made out of emerald
But I know him. I am from him, and he sent me.”
She turned toward him. Then she cried out in the Aramaic language,
We work together to serve God You are like Gods field You are like his building
Whoever does not believe God is calling him a liar. That’s because they have not believed what God said about his Son.
The youth game is split into two groups, with the traditional referee-led system consisting of the results of a win and loss።
Even now the one who gathers the crop is getting paid.
The people and their rulers had no reason at all for sentencing Jesus to death. But they asked Pilate to have him killed.
Then Herod went from Judea to Caesarea and stayed there
None of the disciples dared to ask him, “Who are you?”
So they took him and threw him out of the vineyard. Then they killed him.
that person is a stranger to me
She was a widow.
So does belonging to Christ help you in any way
The beast and the ten horns you saw will hate the prostitute They will destroy her and leave her naked They will eat her flesh and burn her with fire
Jesus ordered the demon to leave the boy, and it came out of him. He was healed at that moment.
The chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for a way to get rid of Jesus. They were afraid of the people.
Even the message God spoke through angels had to be obeyed.
Hell never beat me
For example by law a married woman remains married as long as her husband lives But suppose her husband dies
God is spirit. His worshipers must worship him in the Spirit and in truth.”
Then I saw a scroll in the right hand of the one sitting on the throne. The scroll had writing on both sides. It was sealed with seven seals.
Timothy, guard what God has trusted you with? Turn away from godless chatter. Stay away from opposing ideas that are falsely called knowledge.
Scripture says that God “has put everything under his control.”  It says that “everything” has been put under him.
Bartholomew and Matthew,
We should think more carefully about what we are doing. Then we would not be found guilty for this.
God is pleased with those kinds of offerings
But the one who remains strong in the faith will be saved.
But I came with my soldiers and saved him I had learned that he is a Roman citizen
Sinful desire is interested only in getting ahead.
I want to go with you.
You should come back to your senses and stop sinning. Some of you don’t know anything about God. I say this to make you ashamed.
May more and more grace and peace be given to you.
Pay everything you owe But you can never pay back all the love you owe one another
They follow their own evil desires.
Our hope for you remains firm
All the trouble came to an end. Then Paul sent for the believers. After encouraging them, he said goodbye. He then left for Macedonia.
I'm sick.
Yes he is their God too
Then Jesus said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”
So the commanding officer ordered that Paul be taken into the fort He gave orders for Paul to be whipped and questioned He wanted to find out why the people were shouting at him like this
The Son of Man came to look for the lost and save them
So I plan to see you when I go to Spain. I hope to visit you while I am passing through. And I hope you will help me on my journey there. But first I want to enjoy being with you for a while.
We are witnesses of this.
“ ‘The stone the builders didn’t accept
They will be terrified by her suffering They will stand far away from her And they will cry out
“Be quiet!” said Jesus firmly. “Come out of him!”
Heal the sick people who are there
Why What wrong has he done asked Pilate
Why do you ask me about what is good Jesus replied There is only one who is good If you want to enter the kingdom obey the commandments
The crowd there heard the voice Some said it was thunder
It also forced everyone to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead
it must be killed with stones
Look I am coming soon I bring my rewards with me I will reward each person for what they have done
You have made them members of a royal family
About five thousend men were there
We took a very bad beating from the storm The next day the crew began to throw the ships contents overboard
Here he is! He is speaking openly.
-If your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It would be better for you to enter God’s kingdom with only one hand than to go into hell with two hands. In hell the fire never goes out.
But Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened
“This is a hard teaching.
They are ungodly people.
I will pay each of you back for what you have done
It is written
“No one, sir,” she said.
Then another sign appeared in heaven. It was a huge red dragon. It had seven heads and ten horns. On its seven heads it wore seven crowns.
You study the Scriptures carefully You study them because you think they will give you eternal life
A third angel followed them He said in a loud voice There will be trouble for anyone who worships the beast and its statue There will be trouble for anyone who has its mark on their forehead or their hand
Drive on
Some people may not welcome you If they dont leave their town and shake the dust off your feet This will be a witness against the people living there
Jesus replied, “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho. Robbers attacked him. They stripped off his clothes and beat him. Then they went away, leaving him almost dead.
They will be called children of God
Doesn’t the fact that we are wrong prove more clearly that God is right? Then what can we say?
Then both Philip and the official went down into the water Philip baptized him
“Brothers, what should we do?”
Jacob was the father of Joseph. Joseph was the husband of Mary. And Mary was the mother of Jesus, who is called the Messiah.
Now I live my life in my body by faith in the Son of GodHe loved me and gave himself for me
There is no male or female
They are people who do evil things.
Suppose I give everything I have to poor people.
Slaves, obey your masters here on earth. Respect them and honor them with a heart that is true. Obey them just as you would obey Christ.
Paul Warns Timothy to Oppose False Teachers
Everyone who does evil deeds hates the light. They will not come into the light. They are afraid that what they do will be seen.
You were not born again from a seed that will die. You were born from a seed that can’t die.
The soldiers led Jesus away into the palace It was called the Praetorium They called together the whole company of soldiers
But Mary kept all these things like a secret treasure in her heart She thought about them over and over
They lived in caves They lived in holes in the ground
Abraham and his family received a promise God promised that Abraham would receive the world It would not come to him because he obeyed the law
I do not accept what a person says. I only talk about what John says so that you can be saved.
Jesus is a witness about these things.
The disciples said, “See, Lord, here are two swords.” “Two swords are enough!” he replied.
But many people were coming and going So they did not even have a chance to eat Then Jesus said to his apostles Come with me by yourselves to a quiet place You need to get some rest
Jesus answered, “It is written, ‘Man must not live only on bread.’ ”
The man looked up He said I see people They look like trees walking around
Hosanna in the highest heaven
If we live we live to honor the Lord If we die we die to honor the Lord So whether we live or die we belong to the Lord
One day Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s go over to the other side of the lake.
So dont let anyone judge you because of what you eat or drink Dont let anyone judge you about holy days Im talking about special feasts and New Moons and Sabbath days
When you received Christ your circumcision was not done by human hands Instead your circumcision was done by Christ He put away the person you used to be At that time sins power ruled over you
So God again chose a certain day. He named it today.
Pilate called together the chief priests the rulers and the people
And so John the Baptist appeared in the desert. He preached that people should be baptized and turn away from their sins. Then God would forgive them.
To those who don’t have the law I became like one who doesn’t have the law. I did this even though I am not free from God’s law. I am under Christ’s law. Now I can win those who don’t have the law.
Wash your hands, you sinners.
Salvation belongs to our God
Behind the second curtain was a room called the Most Holy Room.
Many people will follow their lead. These people will do the same evil things the false teachers do.
But you are a mere human being. So who are you to talk back to God?
You say I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebul
If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin.
And whoever does not gather with me scatters.
In Scripture God says to Pharaoh I had a special reason for making you king I decided to use you to show my power I wanted my name to become known everywhere on earth
It flowed down the middle of the citys main street
Thats because God chose us to live pure lives
All Gods people here send their greetings
That’s why he has to offer sacrifices for his own sins. He must also do it for the sins of the people.
Whoever obeys my word will never die.”
God will accept them because of what Jesus Christ has done
Christ died and came back to life He did this to become the Lord of both the dead and the living
Those who use the things of the world should not become all wrapped up in them
We can control the whole animal with it
I say this because many people have tried to fool others These people have gone out into the world
But the time will come when the groom will be taken away from them.
Then he sent them out to announce God’s kingdom
The authority on the law replied, “The one who felt sorry for him.”
If you would, aren’t you treating some people better than others?
Praise to God
Be happy with what you have
Lord, who will not have respect for you?
But God gives the seed a body just as he has planned. And to each kind of seed he gives its own body.
Peter traveled around the country. He went to visit the Lord’s people who lived in Lydda.
Moses was faithful as one who serves in the house of God He was a witness to what God would say in days to come
Jesus could set people free who were afraid of death All their lives they were held as slaves by that fear
“Lord,” Martha said to Jesus, “I wish you had been here!
They asked only one thing. They wanted us to continue to remember poor people.
“In the last days, some people will make fun of the truth. They will follow their own ungodly desires.”
That’s because fear has to do with being punished.
The church follows the lead of Christ. In the same way, wives should follow the lead of their husbands in everything.
Are we stronger than he is?
What you have whispered to someone behind closed doors will be shouted from the rooftops
You are my Son
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Thyatira
Jesus said Are you really Abrahams children
she went out to meet him.
We are known but people treat us as if we were unknown We are dying but we continue to live We are beaten but we are not killed
We find nothing wrong with this man they said
The officers reported this to the judges. When the judges heard that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens, they became afraid.
I wish I could be with you now. I wish I could change my tone of voice. As it is, I don’t understand you.
I bought her a watch.
As soon as it was night the believers sent Paul and Silas away to Berea
But Jesus knew what they were thinking. He spoke to the man who had the weak and twisted hand.
I Paul am writing this letter I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God planned He sent me to tell about the promise of life found in Christ Jesus
What do right and wrong have in common?
You should have practiced the last things without failing to do the first.
The people went to look for him.
How old is this zoo?
Some Jews went around driving out evil spirits. They tried to use the name of the Lord Jesus to set free those who were controlled by demons. They said, “In Jesus’ name I command you to come out. He is the Jesus that Paul is preaching about.”
Whoever speaks on their own does it to get personal honor. But someone who works for the honor of the one who sent him is truthful. Nothing about him is false.
Then why was there still a need for another priest to come? And why did he need to be like Melchizedek? Why wasn’t he from Aaron’s family line?
comfort your hearts May they make you strong in every good thing you do and say
Anyone who is wise should figure out what the beast’s number means.
Should I praise you?
What do you think?”
But not everyone knows this.
Then the people began to beg Jesus to leave their area.
When John came he didnt eat or drink as you do And people say He has a demon
But Jesus became a priest with a promise. God said to him,
A very large crowd spread their coats on the road Others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road
They did what your power and purpose had already decided should happen
And his commands are not hard to obey
The owner of the house will get up and close the door. Then you will stand outside knocking and begging. You will say, ‘Sir, open the door for us.’
“The kingdom of heaven is like yeast,” he said. “A woman mixed it into  pounds of flour. The yeast worked its way all through the dough.”
Come Anyone who is thirsty should come
and your people who honor you
Then I will raise them up on the last day
Jesus Is Baptized and Tempted
Then you will be children of your Father who is in heaven He causes his sun to shine on evil people and good people He sends rain on those who do right and those who dont
In the same way teach the older women to lead a holy life They must not tell lies about others They must not let wine control them Instead they must teach what is good
God drove out the nations that were in their way. At that time Joshua was Israel’s leader.
They surrounded the throne.
What do you want me to do for you Jesus asked him
But here is how God has shown his love for us.
People will be saying that everything is peaceful and safe. Then suddenly they will be destroyed. It will happen like birth pains coming on a pregnant woman. None of the people will escape.
How terrible for you who are well fed now!
you know.
Joseph and Mary did everything the Law of the Lord required
But God has been making it grow
So does belonging to Christ help you in any way Does his love comfort you at all Do you share anything in common because of the Holy Spirit Has Christ ever been gentle and loving toward you
A tenth of the city crumbled and fell
They certainly know what I said
He forgave us all our sins
Dear friends this is now my second letter to you
Jesus replied Suppose someone starts to plow and then looks back That person is not fit for service in Gods kingdom
Jesus answered How can the guests of the groom go without eating while he is with them They will not fast as long as he is with them
I eat here
Jesus Speaks a Second Time About His Coming Death
He put up with their behavior for about fourty years in the desert
Your own Law says that the witness of two people proves the truth about something.
Here is the meaning of the mystery of the seven stars you saw in my right hand. They are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven golden lampstands you saw stand for the seven churches.
Show us who should take the place of Judas as an apostle He gave up being an apostle to go where he belongs
He said, “This is the blood of the covenant God has commanded you to keep.”
Peter and his companions had been very sleepy.
Slaves obey your masters out of deep respect for God Obey not only those who are good and kind Obey also those who are not kind
By remembering them, you can fight the battle well.
I have kept seven thousend people for myself They have not bowed down to Baal
We sent him so that no one would be upset by times of testing You know very well that we have to go through times of testing
I can do all this by the power of Christ. He gives me strength.
“Come,” Jesus said.
The number of men who ate was about ,. Women and children also ate.
They kept asking him questions
Those who are dead are raised to life
When you warn them, don’t be too hard on them. You know that the God who is their Master and yours is in heaven.
I forgot to ask him.
Go quickly! Tell his disciples, ‘He has risen from the dead. He is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him.’ Now I have told you.”
his spirit became strong
He traveled through that area, speaking many words of hope to the people. Finally he arrived in Greece.
It called out in a loud voice,
Obey God
They know they are accountable to God for everything they do. Do this, so that their work will be a joy.
“They also will answer, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty and not help you? When did we see you as a stranger or needing clothes or sick or in prison and not help you?’
Instead always try to do what is good for each other and for everyone else
They were whipped without mercy. Then they were thrown into prison. The jailer was commanded to guard them carefully.
But that doesn’t mean I’m not guilty.
Listen fellow children of Abraham Listen you Gentiles who worship God This message of salvation has been sent to us
He has not left me alone because I always do what pleases him
I was very troubled when I wrote to you My heart was sad My eyes were full of tears
He would not have let his house be broken into.
Some of our women amazed us too. Early this morning they went to the tomb.
Every day they taught in the temple courtyards and from house to house They never stopped telling people the good news that Jesus is the Messiah
Jesus answered, “It is the one I will give this piece of bread to. I will give it to him after I have dipped it in the dish.”
Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand
But during the night an angel of the Lord came He opened the doors of the jail and brought the apostles out
But the Jews objected, so I had to make an appeal to Caesar. I certainly did not mean to bring any charge against my own people.
Our hope is certain It is something for the soul to hold on to
He almost died for the work of Christ He put his life in danger to make up for the help you yourselves couldnt give me
But then they realized that he was a Jew So they all shouted the same thing for about two hours Great is Artemis of the Ephesians they yelled
The next day we sailed from there. We arrived near Chios. The day after that we crossed over to Samos. We arrived at Miletus the next day.
They try to keep us from speaking to the Gentiles These Jews dont want the Gentiles to be saved In this way these Jews always increase their sins to the limit Gods anger has come on them at last
We are sad but we are always full of joy
My brothers and sisters
When he lies, he speaks his natural language. He does this because he is a liar. He is the father of lies.
The earth is ready to be harvested
Yes and the Father will show the Son even greater works than these And you will be amazed
It is good that God’s grace makes our hearts strong.
We serve God by the power of his Spirit
In the days before the flood people were eating and drinking They were getting married They were giving their daughters to be married They did all those things right up to the day Noah entered the ark
The first covenant had rules for worship It also had a sacred tent on earth
Love is not happy with evil. But it is full of joy when the truth is spoken.
He has made us members of his royal family He has made us priests who serve his God and Father
Jesus saw Nathanael approaching. Here is what Jesus said about him. “He is a true Israelite. Nothing about him is false.”
Jesus touched her hand, and the fever left her. She got up and began to serve him.
No worker of any kind
A single woman or a virgin is concerned about the Lords matters
So they sat down in groups of onehundreds and fiftys
They didn’t receive the things God had promised.
Then some of the people of Jerusalem began asking questions They said Isnt this the man some people are trying to kill
He is very sensitive.
Is it easier to say Your sins are forgiven Or to say Get up and walk
Out of the temple came the seven angels who were bringing the seven plagues.
But he replied, “The one who made me well said to me, ‘Pick up your mat and walk.’ ”
“Father, the time has come. Bring glory to your Son. Then your Son will bring glory to you.
Blind people and those who were disabled came to Jesus at the temple There he healed them
Stay there, and eat and drink anything they give you. Workers are worthy of their pay. Do not move around from house to house.
Jesus Appoints the Twelve Disciples
Jesus answered them Healthy people dont need a doctor Sick people do
But his followers helped him escape by night. They lowered him in a basket through an opening in the wall.
These words I have spoken will judge them on the last day.
and powers are under his control.
They do not please God.
Cainan was the son of Arphaxad.
People give birth to people. But the Spirit gives birth to spirit.
Say with your mouth, “Jesus is Lord.”
He will bring me glory. That’s because what he receives from me he will show to you.
Then I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth.
It was when Abiathar was high priest David entered the house of God and ate the holy bread Only priests were allowed to eat it David also gave some to his men
He may come suddenly So do not let him find you sleeping
I have been sent to speak to you
Even when I was in Thessalonica, you sent me help when I needed it. And you did it more than once.
God has saved us from deadly dangers.
When Martha heard that Jesus was coming,
Our good news didnt come to you only in words
Paul Gives Thanks for the Thessalonians Faith
A prophet
You stand there Or
That was because it was hidden from them
I will brag about a man like that But I wont brag about myself I will brag only about how weak I am
But you remain.
But the apostles did not believe the women Their words didnt make any sense to them
Suppose people think their beliefs and how they live are both right. But they don’t control what they say.
The city was laid out like a square. It was as long as it was wide. The angel measured the city with the rod. It was one thoused four hundred miles long. It was as wide and high as it was long.
You be the judges!
But Paul replied to the officers They beat us in public he said We werent given a trial And we are Roman citizens They threw us into prison
Whoever belongs to God hears what God says. The reason you don’t hear is that you don’t belong to God.”
Right now you have plenty in order to take care of what they need Then they will have plenty to take care of what you need The goal is to even things out
“The first,” they answered.
It was because of his own purpose and grace. Through Christ Jesus, God gave us this grace even before time began.
They wanted to find out what he would like to name the child
Then Jesus told them a story. He said, “A certain rich man’s land produced a very large crop.
They are enemies of everyone.
Peter answered Gods MessiahJesus Speaks About His Coming Death
He will be back soon
Everyone who heard him was amazed at how much he understood They also were amazed at his answers
And I will also share in the glory that is going to come.
They are no longer two, but one. So no one should separate what God has joined together.”
Scripture says, “Get rid of that evil person!”
About midnight Paul and Silas were praying They were also singing hymns to God
They shouldn’t expect to receive anything from the Lord.
In ourselves we are not able to claim anything for ourselves. The power to do what we do comes from God.
My brothers and sisters you were chosen to be free
So they answered Jesus We dont know where Johns baptism came from
They are spirits of demons that perform signs They go out to gather the kings of the whole world for battle This battle will take place on the great day of the God who rules over all
Don’t believe a charge against an elder unless two or three witnesses bring it.
The stars will fall from the sky
Because evil will grow, most people’s love will grow cold.
Then many people will give thanks because of what will happen to us. They will thank God for his kindness to us in answer to the prayers of many.
Don’t we know his father and mother?
The whole church and all who heard about these things were filled with fear
He stomps on the grapes of God’s winepress.
“The Spirit of the Lord is on me.
In this way, he will prepare a people who are ready for the Lord.”
Jesus said to them If God were your Father you would love me
Instead it promises God that you will keep a clear sense of right and wrong
He suffered shame because of Christ He thought it had great value
I will dress that person in white like those worthy people I will never erase their names from the book of life
I dont do the good things I want to do I keep on doing the evil things I dont want to do
They are also seven kings
For you any time would be the right time
And Gods grace was working powerfully in all of them
He is mean.
Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium. They won the crowd over to their side.
Let the evil person continue to be evil.
Gods Son will receive glory because of it
He learned that Paul was from Cilicia
And thats what we really are
Goodbye!
Some people still think that statues of gods are real gods. They might eat food sacrificed to statues of gods. When they do, they think of it as food sacrificed to real gods.
You also are among those Gentiles who are appointed to belong to Jesus Christ.
So from now on we don’t look at anyone the way the world does.
In the same way after supper he took the cup He said This cup is the new covenant in my blood Every time you drink it do it in memory of me
What about the dead rising Havent you read in the Book of Moses the story of the burning bush God said to Moses
They called out in a loud voice.
The last enemy that will be destroyed is death.
There are more important things for the body than clothes.
All those who lift themselves up will be made humble. And those who make themselves humble will be lifted up.”
Where do you want us to prepare for it they asked
They all found him guilty and said he must die
Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters
What do we find in Scripture It says Abraham believed God God accepted Abrahams faith and so his faith made him right with God
An Angel Helps Peter Escape From Prison
God himself has taught you to love one another.
“Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good except God.
Their women committed sexual acts that were not natural
If you belonged to the world, it would love you like one of its own. But you do not belong to the world. I have chosen you out of the world. That is why the world hates you.
Paul knew that some of them were Sadducees and the others were Pharisees. So he called out to the members of the Sanhedrin. “My brothers,” he said, “I am a Pharisee. I come from a family of Pharisees.
Does faith makes the law useless? Not at all! We agree with the law.
But now you have received mercy.
These people are like the great enemy of Christ
Was a man already circumcised when God chose him? Then he should not become uncircumcised. Was he uncircumcised when God chose him? Then he should not be circumcised.
Think about the people of Israel. Don’t those who eat the offerings share in the altar?
We know that the law is holy.
Suppose one of you says to them Go I hope everything turns out fine for you Keep warm Eat well And suppose you do nothing about what they really need Then what good have you done
My brothers and sisters, try very hard to show that God has appointed you to be saved. Try hard to show that he has chosen you. If you do everything I have just said, you will never trip and fall.
And he had known who was going to hand him over to his enemies
People walked on it and the birds ate it up
I have not come down from heaven to do what I want to do. I have come to do what the one who sent me wants me to do.
They will weep and mourn
What is our hope? What is our joy? When our Lord Jesus returns, what is the crown we will delight in? Isn’t it you?
First of all, the Jews have been given the very words of God.
They had been left there by the fishermen who were washing their nets
Jesus went on to tell the people a story. “A man planted a vineyard,” he said. “He rented it out to some farmers. Then he went away for a long time.
Jesus does for us everything the holy law requires The power of sin should no longer control the way we live The Holy Spirit should control the way we live
You died
Make room for us in your hearts
He was born under the authority of the law.
So confess your sins to one another. Pray for one another so that you might be healed. The prayer of a godly person is powerful. Things happen because of it.
He looked around at all of them. Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.”
He did this through the preaching that he trusted me with.
Brothers and sisters, you became like the members of God’s churches in Judea. They are believers in Christ Jesus, just as you are. Your own people made you suffer. You went through the same things the church members in Judea suffered from the Jews.
As he went along, people spread their coats on the road.
I will pour out my Holy Spirit on all people
So it used what is good to bring about my death
Then Simon Peter came along behind him.
The people of Israel tried to obey the law to make themselves right with God But they didnt reach their goal of being right with God
Is it a question to eat and stay overnight
Then some of our friends went to the tomb They saw it was empty just as the women had said They didnt see Jesus body there
I give thanks to God who saves me He saves me through Jesus Christ our Lord
A voice spoke to him from heaven. It said, “You are my Son, and I love you. I am very pleased with you.”
But they did not find any proof, even though many false witnesses came forward.
They promised that they would not eat or drink anything until they killed him.
sulfur that came out of the horses’ mouths.
Then they cast lots
I can't afford that.
but death will escape them.
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief The heavens will disappear with a roar Fire will destroy everything in them God will judge the earth and everything done in it
No one pours new wine into old wineskins Otherwise the wine will burst the skins Then the wine and the wineskins will both be destroyed No people pour new wine into new wineskins
The word of God is alive and active
“Get up!” The chains fell off Peter’s wrists.
Some have turned from these teachings. They would rather talk about things that have no meaning.
It also belongs to his wife.
In his very nature he was God
Jesus answered, “You say that I am a king.
I won
They are like children sitting in the market and calling out to each other.
Philip and the Man From Ethiopia
But they didn’t understand what he meant. And they were afraid to ask him about it.
You also became believers in Christ That happened when you heard the message of truth
If you are, you will do what Abraham did.
Others make us suffer But God does not desert us We are knocked down But we are not knocked out
And no one can take this honor for himself. Instead, he receives it when he is appointed by God. That is just how it was for Aaron.
His words won over some of the Jews. They joined Paul and Silas. A large number of Greeks who worshiped God joined them too. So did quite a few important women.
I myself am a man under authority. And I have soldiers who obey my orders. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes. I tell that one, ‘Come,’ and he comes. I say to my slave, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
There were ten crowns on its horns.
Ask and it will be given to you Search and you will find Knock and the door will be opened to you
He walked and jumped and praised God.
I know you can’t put up with evil people.
Why is the sky blue?
“Fellow Israelites, you can be sure that King David died. He was buried. His tomb is still here today.
So even though I am away from you in body, I am with you in spirit.
“I do not pray only for them. I pray also for everyone who will believe in me because of their message.
“Suppose you love those who love you. Should anyone praise you for that?
Mattatha was the son of Nathan
You were running a good race.
Peter was wondering what the vision meant.
We have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place
Brothers and sisters, you are loved by God.
I prefer cats to dogs
but they obey the law. They will prove that you are guilty. You are breaking the law, even though you have the written law and are circumcised.
We have a high priest like that. He sat down at the right hand of the throne of the King, the Majesty in heaven.
At dawn the elders of the people met together These included the chief priests and the teachers of the law Jesus was led to them
He is not the God of the dead. He is the God of the living. In his eyes, everyone is alive.”
When they came near the crowd, a man approached Jesus. He got on his knees in front of him.
“Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Won’t you sit down first and figure out how much it will cost? Then you will see whether you have enough money to finish it.
You foolish people of Galatia Who has put you under an evil spell When I preached I clearly showed you that Jesus Christ had been nailed to the cross
How can this happen
“Is this any way to answer the high priest?” he asked.
Here is a saying you can trust.
God judged the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah
I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven What you lock on earth will be locked in heaven What you unlock on earth will be unlocked in heaven
Two women will be grinding with a hand mill. One will be taken and the other left.
After going through Pisidia Paul and Barnabas came into Pamphylia
Then another sign appeared in heaven
The Sadducees say that people will not rise from the dead. They don’t believe there are angels or spirits either.
With the people of Israel
So my heart is glad and joy is on my tongue.
I really have to go.
If any of you needs wisdom you should ask God for it He will give it to you God gives freely to everyone and doesnt find fault
So then, welcome him as a brother in the Lord with great joy.
All Israel Will Be Saved
Anna came up to Jesus’ family at that moment. She gave thanks to God.
Cornelius and all his family were faithful and worshiped God. He gave freely to people who were in need. He prayed to God regularly.
“Look! He is coming with the clouds!”
I beg you to pray that I may return to you soon. Final Blessing and Greetings
He will overpower them and kill them
It was the governors practice at the Passover Feast to let one prisoner go free The people could choose the one they wanted
The chief priests and the teachers of the law heard about this. They began looking for a way to kill Jesus. They were afraid of him, because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching.
“Why are you thinking these things in your hearts?
You hear the sound it makes.
And suppose he has ten thousennd men while the other has twenty thousend coming against him Wont he first sit down and think about whether he can win
Jesus replied, “How terrible for you authorities on the law!
In that way the parts of the body will not take sides All of them will take care of one another
Peter asked her, “How could you agree to test the Spirit of the Lord?
But you are a mere human being So who are you to talk back to God
If I make you sad, who is going to make me glad? Only you, the people I made sad.
He wants me to set free those who are treated badly.
Even people who don’t know God don’t let that kind of sin continue.
I continued singing.
Give praise to the Lord the God of IsraelHe has come to his people and purchased their freedom
It was as clear as crystal.
All the elders were there.
You have had it since the beginning.
But here is the bread that comes down from heaven. A person can eat it and not die.
“Everyone living in Jerusalem knows they have performed an unusual miracle.
We cant gain anything by bragging But I have to do it anyway I am going to tell you what Ive seen I want to talk about what the Lord has shown me
Jesus answered them, “Haven’t you ever read about what David did? He and his men were hungry.
There is no slave or free person.
He said, “How can Satan drive out Satan?
The message we preach is not about ourselves Our message is about Jesus Christ We say that he is Lord And we say that we serve you because of Jesus
But the Jewish leaders kept shouting, “If you let this man go,
It is planted without honor But it is raised in glory It is planted in weakness But it is raised in power
They were happy to do it And of course they owe it to them The Gentiles have shared in the Jews spiritual blessings So the Gentiles should share their earthly blessings with the Jews
But God said to him You foolish man Tonight I will take your life away from you
What should we do? They will certainly hear that you have come.
Timothy guard what God has trusted you with Turn away from godless chatter Stay away from opposing ideas that are falsely called knowledge
Suppose someone comes to you
People thought she could not have children.
He was humble and obeyed God completely.
But suppose your hearts are jealous and bitter. Suppose you are concerned only about getting ahead.
Give him glory for ever and ever. Amen.
According to the information we received from Somaliland, it is expected that the top leaders of Somaliland and the region will hold a discussion on trade and security issues around the border of Somaliland.
How high is Mt Fuji
Without a doubt, the more important person blesses the less important one.
People will love them
He is troubled because you heard he was sick.
My Father wants all who look to the Son and believe in him to have eternal life.
Those who buy something should live as if it were not theirs to keep.
Those who cited it as a reason also stated that it would be easier to say that what is sold on the market and what the government is selling is equal to what it is offering።
It makes his glory shine more brightly. Why then does he find me guilty of sin?”
Suppose a brother or a sister has no clothes or food
Are you the one who is supposed to come
Don’t let anything keep you from going with them.
I don’t feel I have done anything wrong. But that doesn’t mean I’m not guilty. The Lord judges me.
So Pharaoh made Joseph ruler over Egypt and his whole palace.
“Do not get any gold, silver or copper to take with you in your belts.
Then you can help me on my journey everywhere I go
Jesus replied, “You are mistaken because you do not know the Scriptures. And you do not know the power of God.
The Israelites didnt trip and fall once and for all time did them
Unlike many people, we aren’t selling God’s word to make money. In fact, it is just the opposite. Because of Christ we speak honestly before God. We speak like people God has sent.
Because of their faith they took over kingdoms They ruled fairly They received the blessings God had promised They shut the mouths of lions
did you offerings For fourty years in the desert?
By doing this he could break the power of the devil The devil is the one who rules over the kingdom of death
The Son of Man will go to his death just as God has already decided But how terrible it will be for the one who hands him over
I have a new red car
But what if we say, ‘From human authority’? We are afraid of the people. Everyone believes that John was a prophet.”
A man’s enemies will be the members of his own family.’
They sat down and kept watch over him there
Then Simeon blessed them He said to Mary Jesus mother
This child is going to cause many people in Israel to fall and to rise
The strength to go on produces character Character produces hope
He was exposed to irreplaceable psychological fractures።
Then they returned with orders that Silas and Timothy were supposed to join him as soon as they could.
Here I am I stand at the door and knock
I’m writing to you because you know the Father.
The parts that can be shown dont need special care But God has put together all the parts of the body And he has given more honor to the parts that didnt have any
Elijah and Moses appeared in front of Jesus and his disciples. The two of them were talking with Jesus.
He got up and ordered the wind and the huge waves to stop.
Thats because the world does not see him or know him
I face death every day Thats the truth
Addi was the son of Cosam
None of our people here from Judea has reported or said anything bad about you
After this I looked, and there in front of me was a door standing open in heaven. I heard the voice I had heard before. It sounded like a trumpet. The voice said, “Come up here. I will show you what must happen after this.”
Whatever you believe about these things, keep between yourself and God.
Christ suffered in his body So prepare yourselves to think in the same way Christ did
The Lord gave me the authority to build you up He didnt give it to me to tear you down
The seven heads are seven hills that the woman sits on
“In Egypt the number of our people grew and grew. It was nearly time for God to make his promise to Abraham come true.
Blind people receive sight
Lazarus was among the people at the table with Jesus.
But here is what happens when people listen to my words and do not obey them
From Attalia they sailed back to Antioch
I pray that there will be no more problems among you
HosannaBlessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord
Sarah was like that.
A woman came to Jesus with a special sealed jar of very expensive perfume. She poured the perfume on his head while he was at the table.
She was the daughter of Penuel from the tribe of Asher Anna was very old After getting married she lived with her husband seven years
When he shouted the voices of the seven thunders spoke
All the angels were standing around the throne
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God planned. He sent me to tell about the promise of life found in Christ Jesus.
Live like this as you look forward to the day of God. Living like this will make the day come more quickly.
In another place God said,
Anyone who believes in me will live even if they die
Both he and his angels lost their place in heaven
In doing so, he kept fighting for ages only in the country።
But suppose the servant says to himself, ‘My master is taking a long time to come back.’ Suppose that servant begins to beat the other servants, both men and women.
After this, Jesus traveled around from one town and village to another.
Do I say this only on human authority The Law says the same thing
It grew up and produced a crop one hundred times more than the farmer planted
Instead, always try to do what is good for each other and for everyone else.
He doesnt like fish
And this is what Christ does for the church
When we break the bread arent we sharing in the body of Christ
Then I saw another angel coming up from the east He brought the official seal of the living God
They asked one last time, “Who are you?
But they still did not believe it They were amazed and filled with joy So Jesus asked them Do you have anything here to eat
We announce to you what we have seen and heard. We do it so you can share life together with us.
Brothers and sisters I am sure you remember how hard we worked We labored night and day while we preached to you Gods good news We didnt want to cause you any expense
What if he were on earth Then he would not be a priest
Let the person who does wrong keep on doing wrong
Here is the command God has given us.
Do not take a bag for the journey. Do not take extra clothes or sandals or walking sticks. A worker should be given what he needs.
Those who have died believing in Christ are also lost
Jesus Christ was born as we are and he died on the cross
I will speak of them by name to my Father and his angels.
Also pick up the shield of faith With it you can put out all the flaming arrows of the evil one
In fact breaking the law is sin
He said to him Everyone brings out the best wine first
“You are Israel’s teacher,” said Jesus. “Don’t you understand these things?
But he said to me,
But they remained silent So Jesus took hold of the man and healed him Then he sent him away
Then Jesus gave them an example. He said, “No one tears a piece out of new clothes to patch old clothes. Otherwise, they will tear the new clothes. Also, the patch from the new clothes will not match the old clothes.
But prophecy will pass away
I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are living by the truth
If anyone speaks, they should do it as one speaking God’s words. If anyone serves, they should do it with the strength God provides. Then in all things God will be praised through Jesus Christ. Glory and power belong to him for ever and ever. Amen.
Here is what I want you to know There will be terrible times in the last days
Whoever doesnt belong to the Son of God doesnt have life
Stay excited about your faith as you serve the Lord
Praise and cursing come out of the same mouth My brothers and sisters it shouldnt be this way
And we share life with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ.
Then Pilate spoke to the chief priests and the crowd He announced I find no basis for a charge against this man
“I am not controlled by a demon,” said Jesus. “I honor my Father.
So you have an honest and true love for each other
“You nest of poisonous snakes! How will you escape from being sentenced to hell?
I have come so that people who are blind will seeI have come so that people who can see will become blind
Giving your word makes a promise certain It puts an end to all arguing
They shouldnt wear clothes that cost a lot of money
It used the commandment to put me to death.
Training the body has some value. But being godly has value in every way. It promises help for the life you are now living and the life to come.
Long ago your people ate manna and died.
He happened to be chosen, in the usual way, to go into the temple of the Lord. There he was supposed to burn incense.
But you do not belong to the world I have chosen you out of the world
But the one who now holds back that power will keep doing it until he is taken out of the way
Or
From others Peter answered
Jesus continued In a little while you will no longer see me
The God who gives peace will be with you
‘I am not like robbers or those who do other evil things.
Then you can give glory to God with one mind and voice. He is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
“Hallelujah!
Jesus took the  disciples to one side. He told them, “We are going up to Jerusalem. Everything that the prophets wrote about the Son of Man will come true.
Brothers and sisters we have a duty Our duty is not to live under the power of sin
Every good and perfect gift is from God. This kind of gift comes down from the Father who created the heavenly lights.
Suppose people from Macedonia come with me and find out that you are not prepared. Then we, as well as you, would be ashamed of being so certain.
Outside are also those who commit sexual sins and murder
He is above every name that is appealed to in this world and in the world to come
This is the revelation from Jesus Christ. God gave it to him to show those who serve God what will happen soon.
I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink?”
Do I say this only on human authority?
His disciples later remembered what he had said. That was after he had been raised from the dead.
I heard a loud voice behind me that sounded like a trumpet
He will help you who are troubled And he will also help us All these things will happen when the Lord Jesus appears from heaven He will come in blazing fire He will come with his powerful angels
Whose Son Is the Messiah?
His birth will make many people very glad
And he will give us anything we ask
They are like mists driven by a storm.
At that same time there was a powerful earthquake A tenth of the city crumbled and fell In the earthquake seven thousend people were killed Those who lived through it were terrified They gave glory to the God of heaven
Then he left them. He got back into the boat and crossed to the other side of the lake.
He is tall.
As you know after that he wanted to receive his fathers blessing But he was turned away With tears he tried to get the blessing But he couldnt change what he had done
He is very sensitive
Then they handed Paul over to him.
It is written,
However, it causes conflict and raises the idea that there should be or should come a force for the solution that I represent and defend against the government።
But someone will ask How are the dead raised What kind of body will they have
He was a sign from God to the people of Nineveh In the same way the Son of Man will be a sign from God to the people of today
We have depended on God’s grace and not on the world’s wisdom.
I asked Titus to go to you.
What benefit did you gain from doing the things you are now ashamed of Those things lead to death
Then he went out to the gate leading into the courtyard. There another servant saw him. She said to the people, “This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth.”
All of them have turned away.
or war
There in front of me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it
So I always try not to do anything wrong in the eyes of God or in the eyes of people
The Spirit of the God who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you.
They might hear with their ears
So we are Christ’s official messengers. It is as if God were making his appeal through us. Here is what Christ wants us to beg you to do. Come back to God!
He bent over her and commanded the fever to leave and it left her
You have seen the Blameless One You have heard words from his mouth
God is not a God of disorder. He is a God of peace, just as in all the churches of the Lord’s people.
It was her brother Lazarus who was sick in bed.
I know my tent will soon be removed.
But I know him I am from him and he sent me
Some of you say, “I have the right to do anything.”
That the law is sinful
The Soldiers Make Fun of Jesus
“The words from their lips are like the poison of a snake.”
The crowd was really amazed They asked Arent all these people who are speaking Galileans
Should we save life
Those who led the way commanded him to stop. They told him to be quiet. But he shouted even louder, “Son of David! Have mercy on me!”
Dear children, we are living in the last days.
But being godly has value in every way.
Hide us from the face of the one who sits on the throne
Even though he was rich he became poor to help you Because he became poor you can become rich
In fact you do love all Gods family all around Macedonia Brothers and sisters we are asking you to love one another more and more
To those he has made right with himself, he has given his glory.
It is unusual for anyone to die for a godly person.
He was chosen before God created the world
As you can tell, I am just using human ways of thinking.
I am not lying.
Give freely to poor people to show what is inside you.
It is time to reward your servants the prophets
Doesn’t the fact that we are wrong prove more clearly that God is right? Then what can we say? Can we say that God is not fair when he brings his anger down on us? As you can tell, I am just using human ways of thinking.
Jesus replied Lets go somewhere else I want to go to the nearby towns I must preach there also That is why I have come
But you remain the same
She must be well known for the good things she does
Here is the name that is written on the riders robe and on his thighThe Greatest King of All and the Most Powerful Lord of All
So did his mothers sister Mary the wife of Clopas and Mary Magdalene
“It is a stone that causes people to trip.
Their worship doesn’t mean anything to me.
Don’t let it trouble you.
And I hold the keys to Death and Hell
A third of the water turned bitter.
When the day of Pentecost came
But each believer should live in whatever situation the Lord has given them Stay as you were when God chose you Thats the rule all the churches must follow
Get out
Then each of them was given a white robe Wait a little longer they were told
This one came out of the earth
They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any plant or tree. They were supposed to harm only the people without God’s official seal on their foreheads.
We are true to our calling.
The stars will fall from the sky.
Question him yourself. Then you will learn the truth about all these charges we are bringing against him.”
God did not send his Son into the world to judge the world. He sent his Son to save the world through him.
He must not be a person who likes to argue
Jesus Preaches the Good News
your Father, to my God and your God.’ ”
Jesus came, took the bread and gave it to them.
Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world
Four of those who came were carrying a man who could not walk
You claim to teach others, but you don’t even teach yourself! You preach against stealing. But you steal!
And don’t start saying to yourselves, ‘Abraham is our father.’
In everything I did, I showed you that we must work hard and help the weak. We must remember the words of the Lord Jesus. He said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ”
Who serves as a soldier but doesn’t get paid?
It is unusual for anyone to die for a godly person
If possible, live in peace with everyone. Do that as much as you can.
Suppose some of them dont believe Gods word
But they remained silent. So Jesus took hold of the man and healed him. Then he sent him away.
Others will be judged later
“No one among your relatives has that name.”
Jesus knew what they were saying So he said Your faith is so small Why are you talking to each other about having no bread
The prophets’ words agree with that. They say,
The back of the ship was broken to pieces by the pounding of the waves
For many days he was seen by those who had traveled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. Now they are telling our people about Jesus.
I'd like to go library.
I’m afraid that when I come I won’t find you as I want you to be. I’m afraid that you won’t find me as you want me to be. I’m afraid there will be arguing, jealousy and fits of anger. I’m afraid each of you will focus only on getting ahead. Then you will tell lies about each other. You will talk about each other. I’m afraid you will be proud and cause trouble.
His concerns pull him in two directions
The traders who sold these things became rich because of Babylon. When she suffers, they will stand far away. Her suffering will terrify them. They will weep and mourn.
Thats because God had planned something better for us So they would only be made perfect together with us
And no one can take this honor for himself Instead he receives it when he is appointed by God That is just how it was for Aaron
Then they will go away to be punished forever But those who have done what is right will receive eternal life
Who is this please
Now Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard about him.
Where there is no law, the law can’t be broken.
God our Savior has commanded all these things.
Shaking with fear she came and fell at his feet
Is it my business to judge those outside the church
Ask Abrham
I will be his Father
It is written, “I am the God who judges people.
We have been made right with God because of our faith. Now we have peace with him because of our Lord Jesus Christ.
The group brought them to the apostles.
Jesus asked the boys father How long has he been like this
But few things are needed Really only one thing is needed
The commander heard about Jesus So he sent some elders of the Jews to him
Here is what I tell you Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery A man may divorce his wife only if she has not been faithful to him
But he gives grace to those who are humble
Are you engaged to a woman? Then don’t try to get out of it.
He gave five bags of gold to one. He gave two bags to another. And he gave one bag to the third. The man gave each slave the amount of money he knew the slave could take care of. Then he went on his journey.
The first beast was the one who had been wounded by a sword and still lived
We can they answered
She said, “Promise me that one of my two sons may sit at your right hand in your kingdom. Promise that the other one may sit at your left hand.”
Ill do it even though you now have deep roots in the truth
will ever be found in you again
He told them, “This is what is written. The Messiah will suffer. He will rise from the dead on the third day.
You were not born again from a seed that will die You were born from a seed that cant die
What is truth Pilate replied
So they came and said they were sorry. They led them out of the prison. Then they asked them to leave the city.
So I really want to preach the good news also to you who live in Rome
Wife how do you know if you will save your husband
Everyone should provide for their own relatives.
sisters dont let anyone fool you
Most of all, here is what you must understand. In the last days people will make fun of the truth. They will laugh at it. They will follow their own evil desires.
The sheep listen to his voice
You judge by human standards. I don’t judge anyone.
The disciples were very happy when they saw the Lord
Watch out for those dogs.
That will happen after God sets all his people completely free All these things will bring praise to his glory
You say, “I have the right to do anything.” But not everything is helpful. Again you say, “I have the right to do anything.” But not everything builds us up.
If I were I would not be serving Christ
people were talking about all these things
Then I heard the altar reply. It said,
I often catch colds.
And so you will be witnesses about me
But the Jews in Thessalonica found out that Paul was preaching God’s word in Berea. So some of them went there too.
They kept asking, “What does he mean by ‘a little while’? We don’t understand what he is saying.”
There were three gates on the south
But some of them wouldn’t listen. They refused to believe. In public they said evil things about the Way of Jesus. So Paul left them.
the way you judge is true and fair.”
Annas, the high priest, was there. So were Caiaphas, John, Alexander and other people in the high priest’s family.
Teacher he said tell my brother to divide the family property with me
And they will be my people.
Silas Timothy and I preached to you about the Son of God Jesus Christ
Jesus Gives Words of Warning and Hope
God placed all things under Christ’s rule. He appointed him to be ruler over everything for the church.
Then the evil spirit goes and takes seven other spirits more evil than itself. They go in and live there. That person is worse off than before.”
And whoever doesn’t eat meat does so to honor the Lord.
So this is what we preach, whether I or the other apostles who preached to you.
I completely expect and hope that I won’t be ashamed in any way.
Suffering for Doing Good
But these people say evil things against whatever they dont understand And the very things they do understand will destroy them
At last you are concerned about me again. That makes me very happy. We belong to the Lord.
In many ways he proved that he was alive.
He was the only son of his mother.
So I am glad to explain my actions to you.
He appeared to Peter
At sunrise he arrived again in the temple courtyard.
They will gather a large number of teachers around them. The teachers will say what the people want to hear.
Now angels are stronger and more powerful than these people
Remain in God’s Love
I never played golf.
Jesus answered, “What I’m about to tell you is true. You are not looking for me because you saw the signs I did. You are looking for me because you ate the loaves until you were full.
I received this command from my Father
For three and a half days, people will stare at their bodies. These people will be from every tribe and nation, no matter what language they speak. They will refuse to bury them.
I dont have anything certain to write about him to His Majesty So I have brought him here today
It is planted without honor
Men of Israel he said think carefully about what you plan to do to these men
Without faith it is impossible to please God.
Live as free people. But don’t use your freedom to cover up evil. Live as people who are God’s slaves.
They think of new ways to do evil
Right away Jesus made his disciples get into the boat He had them go on ahead of him to Bethsaida Then he sent the crowd away
The next day Jesus and those who were with him came down from the mountain. A large crowd met Jesus.
That’s because when Melchizedek met Abraham, Levi was still in Abraham’s body.
you have seen him.”
This is the bread that came down from heaven
The believers decided to provide help for the brothers and sisters living in Judea. All of them helped as much as they could.
There were shepherds living out in the fields nearby. It was night, and they were taking care of their sheep.
Don’t let anyone fool you with worthless words.
But Judas Iscariot didnt like what Mary did He was one of Jesus disciples Later he was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies
But thank God that with your whole heart you obeyed the teachings you were given
Then you and everyone living in your house will be saved.”
He turned toward the dead woman He said Tabitha get up
I am the Beginning and the End
Jesus knew what they were saying. So he asked them, “Why are you talking about having no bread? Why can’t you see or understand? Are you stubborn?
He sent his one and only Son into the world He sent him so we could receive life through him
Brothers and sisters, I want to remind you of the good news I preached to you. You received it and have put your faith in it.
Even this doesnt satisfy him So he refuses to welcome other believers
He became a powerful speaker and a man of action
The angel greeted her and said
We sat down and began to speak to the women who had gathered together.
Do you disrespect God’s great kindness and favor? Do you disrespect God when he is patient with you? Don’t you realize that God’s kindness is meant to turn you away from your sins?
Get away!
Here is my covenant with them
It is strong and secure It goes all the way into the Most Holy Room behind the curtain
You will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit
Instead, let us be wide awake and in full control of ourselves.
He was humble and obeyed God completely
You have been blessed in every way because of him You have been blessed in all your speech and knowledge
I retired last year.
God raised him from the dead He is Jesus
A spirit takes hold of him, and he suddenly screams.
She refuses to be comforted,because they are gone.”
This was so that your faith would be based on Gods power Your faith would not be based on human wisdom
The Story of the Lost Coin
Then he put his right hand on me and said, “Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last.
Jesus replied Foxes have dens Birds have nests But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head
But he came into the world for your sake in these last days
He went on his way full of joy.
But the seed that fell on good soil is like those who hear the message and understand it. They produce a crop ,  or  times more than the farmer planted.”
Sarah was like that She obeyed Abraham She called him her master Do you want to be like her Then do what is right And dont give in to fear
God is tempting meGod cant be tempted by evil And he doesnt tempt anyone
The foolish ones took their lamps but didnt take any olive oil with them
Who can separate us from Christ’s love?
Take some guards with you Pilate answered Go Make the tomb as secure as you can
We are witnesses about him
Think about the ravens. They don’t plant or gather crops. They don’t have any barns at all. But God feeds them. You are worth much more than birds!
Philip went to tell Andrew. Then Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it
It also had reptiles and birds in it
This man whom you see and know was made strong because of faith in Jesus’ name. Faith in Jesus has healed him completely. You can see it with your own eyes.
According to Wag the war-affected districts are Abergele district and Tsagbaj district which rise in the top
The rest grabbed his slaves. They treated them badly and then killed them.
Every time rising prices are testing citizens።
We landed at Syracuse and stayed there for three days.
It is the smallest of all seeds But when it grows it is the largest of all garden plants It becomes a tree Birds come and rest in its branches
I would like all of you to speak in other languages
We know that no one who depends on the law is made right with God. This is because “the one who is right with God will live by faith.”
God’s People Enter His Sabbath Rest
You are quite right
He met Abraham, who was returning from winning a battle over some kings. Melchizedek blessed him.
Joseph went boldly to Pilate and asked for Jesus body Joseph was from the town of Arimathea He was a leading member of the Jewish Council He was waiting for Gods kingdom
But you each have your own gift from God.
I'm ill.
They were wearing white robes In their hands they were holding palm branches
They were trying to trap Jesus with that question. They wanted to have a reason to bring charges against him.
She tried.
Jesus asked the boy’s father, “How long has he been like this?”
It was a woman wearing the sun like clothes
From there he traveled all around He preached the good news in all the towns Finally he arrived in Caesarea
No one has seen him
So they cut the anchors loose and left them in the sea. At the same time, they untied the ropes that held the rudders. They lifted the sail at the front of the ship to the wind. Then they headed for the beach.
You haven’t come to a blast from God’s trumpet. You haven’t come to a voice speaking to you.
So be very careful how you live.
I am so concerned about my people who are members of my own race I am ready to be cursed if that would help them I am even willing to be separated from Christ
We decided that God had called us to preach the good news there
But God made a promise to him and to all his family after him.
So when you come together, I will be with you in spirit. The power of our Lord Jesus will also be with you.
Our Lord Jesus is the great Shepherd of the sheep The God who gives peace brought him back from the dead He did it because of the blood of the eternal covenant
Then after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem. This time I went with Barnabas. I took Titus along also.
Show proper respect to everyone Love the family of believers Have respect for God Honor the emperor
The world has hated them Thats because they are not part of the world any more than I am
Instead, they should put on good works as if good works were their clothes.
Silas Timothy and I preached to you about the Son of God Jesus Christ Our message did not say Yes and No at the same time The message of Christ has always been Yes
God has chosen to make known to them the glorious riches of that mystery He has made it known among the Gentiles
Paul and Barnabas prayed and fasted They placed the elders in the Lords care
Anyone who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life.
to show his Son in my life He wanted me to preach about Jesus among the Gentiles When God appointed me I decided right away not to ask anyone for advice
Then Paul and Barnabas reported everything God had done through them
You know what kinds of things happened to me in Antioch,
It obeys.
Many false prophets will appear They will fool many people
I am not a widow.
For a long time he had not worn clothes or lived in a house He lived in the tombs
He did the same thing with the fish
Then you are blessed because Gods Spirit rests on you He is the Spirit of glory
Pilate came out to them. He asked, “What charges are you bringing against this man?”
Suppose the priestly system could have made people perfect
“How terrible it will be for you, Chorazin
They marched across the whole earth. They surrounded the place where God’s holy people were camped. It was the city he loves. But fire came down from heaven and burned them up.
“Sit at my right hand.i will put your enemies
In the morning the soldiers were bewildered. They couldn’t figure out what had happened to Peter.
Suppose they sin against you seven times in one day. And suppose they come back to you each time and say, ‘I’m sorry.’ You must forgive them.”
The weapons I fight with are not the weapons the world uses. In fact, it is just the opposite.
Instead, we will speak the truth in love.
So how do you think you will escape when God judges you
Instead, I received it from Jesus Christ. He showed it to me.
Receive her in the way God’s people should.
The nations will walk by the light of the city The kings of the world will bring their glory into it
All of you should honor marriage.
The Yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees
God’s power to be made right with him is given to the person who has faith. It happens by faith from beginning to end.
Greet all God’s people with a holy kiss.
Marys Song
As they all approached Jerusalem, they came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives. Jesus sent out two of his disciples.
As you know, we never praised you if we didn’t mean it. We didn’t put on a mask to cover up any sinful desire. God is our witness that this is true.
I laughed at his joke
I have told both Jews and Greeks that they must turn away from their sins to God They must have faith in our Lord Jesus
He is the one who watches over your souls
I keep every thought under control in order to make it obey Christ.
It said
No one can brag about earning it
Salvation and glory and power belong to our God.
So they gathered what was left over from the five barley loaves They filled tewelve baskets with the pieces left by those who had eaten
But the Father does not change like these shadows.
While he was speaking, a cloud appeared and covered them.
Or should we do evil
It will not come until the man of sin appears He is a marked man
Keep far away from sexual sins.
You broke the rules
Because I was sure of this, I wanted to visit you first. Here is how I thought you would be helped twice.
But here is what happens when people listen to my words and do not obey them.
Peter remembered. He said to Jesus, “Rabbi, look! The fig tree you put a curse on has dried up!”
On Herod’s birthday the daughter of Herodias danced for Herod and his guests. She pleased Herod very much.
We accept what people say when they are witnesses. But it’s more important when God is a witness. That’s because it is what God says about his Son.
No Ive been speaking with God as my witness Ive been speaking like a believer in Christ
After the feast was over, his parents left to go back home.
Did you receive the Holy Spirit by obeying the law? Or did you receive the Spirit by believing what you heard?
And that’s not all.
But they continue to do those very things They also approve of others who do them
Jesus and the two of them talked together.
So he spoke to the man who could not walk. “I tell you,” he said, “get up.Take your mat and go home.”
First they must be tested Then let them serve as deacons if there is nothing against them
Finally my brothers and sisters always think about what is true
You put such heavy loads on people that they can hardly carry them
He rules over what God has created He says
Here is my covenant with them.
So just being circumcised is not enough Those who are circumcised must also follow the steps of our father Abraham He had faith before he was circumcised
John replied, using the words of Isaiah the prophet. John said, “I’m the messenger who is calling out in the desert, ‘Make the way for the Lord straight.’ ”
The eye cant say to the hand I dont need you
We don’t give up. Our bodies are becoming weaker and weaker.
Dont take part in the sins of others Keep yourself pure
Now I am ready to visit you for the third time. I won’t cause you any expense. I don’t want what you have. What I really want is you. After all, children shouldn’t have to save up for their parents. Parents should save up for their children.
Teachings like those come from liars who pretend to be what they are not.
It also loves peace.
John was like a lamp that burned and gave light.
You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you
I will forgive their evil ways
But the commander couldnt get the facts because of all the noise
We didn’t bring anything into the world. We can’t take anything out of it.
This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die.
I looked, and there in front of me was a white horse!
“The older son was in the field. When he came near the house, he heard music and dancing.
His feet were like bronze metal glowing in a furnace.
Honor the emperor.
Even when we were with you we gave you a rule We said Anyone who wont work shouldnt be allowed to eat
Who is the liar? It is anyone who says that Jesus is not the Christ.
Two chains held him there. Lookouts stood guard at the entrance.
“Isn’t this the same man who used to sit and beg?” they asked.
Who plants a vineyard but doesnt eat any of its grapes
He was very wise
Hosanna to the Son of David
A man who had a skin disease came and got down on his knees in front of Jesus He said Lord if you are willing to make me clean you can do it
The three most important things to have are faith, hope and love.
“You are controlled by demons,” the crowd answered.
“What is truth?” Pilate replied.
But he gives grace to those who are humble.”
It is the same with God’s covenant agreement.
But someone will ask How are the dead raised
They praised God They were respected by all the people
When Peter saw that disciple, he asked, “Lord,
But we dont have the right to put anyone to death they complained
Then Jesus said to him, “Get up and go. Your faith has healed you.”
“How terrible it will be for you, Chorazin! How terrible for you, Bethsaida! Suppose the miracles done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon. They would have turned away from their sins long ago. They would have put on clothes for mourning. They would have sat down in ashes.
Wives, follow the lead of your own husbands as you follow the Lord.
He said to them What if one of your sheep falls into a pit on the Sabbath day Wont you take hold of it and lift it out
Then he told me, “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy in this book. These things are about to happen.
Though you are only a human being, you judge others. But you yourself do the same things.
From that time on the disciple took her into his home
Jesus answered, “Here is the most important one. Moses said, ‘Israel, listen to me. The Lord is our God. The Lord is one.
It is no different for the Jews than for the Gentiles
In fact, you do love all God’s family all around Macedonia.
God’s grace has saved you because of your faith in Christ.
He was also chosen by the churches to go with us as we bring the offering. We are in charge of it. We want to honor the Lord himself. We want to show how ready we are to help.
to the one who sits on the throne and to the Lamb!
They are like a man who builds a house on soft ground instead of solid rock.The moment the river rushes against that house, it falls down.
I will show wonders in the heavens above.
Im the only one left
But you are looking for a way to kill me. I am a man who has told you the truth I heard from God. Abraham didn’t do the things you want to do.
We are the temple of the living God. God has said,
Don’t do anything only to get ahead.
But you are stubborn
That’s the hope we had when we were saved. But hope that can be seen is no hope at all. Who hopes for what they already have?
I have many reasons to trust in who I am and what I have done.
a bad tree doesn’t bear good fruit.
Even sinners love those who love them.
He says Jesus will change the practices that Moses handed down to us
Now you will tell everyone about what you have seen and heard.
God has made a great many promises. They are all “Yes” because of what Christ has done. So through Christ we say “Amen.” We want God to receive glory.
Even though I am not right there with you, I am with you in spirit. And because I am with you in spirit, I have already judged the man doing this. I have judged him in the name of our Lord Jesus.
Death came because of what a man did. Rising from the dead also comes because of what a man did.
None of our faces are covered with a veil. All of us can see the Lord’s glory and think deeply about it. So we are being changed to become more like him so that we have more and more glory. And this glory comes from the Lord, who is the Holy Spirit.
Dont eat meat if it causes your brother or sister to sin Dont drink wine or do anything else that will make them sin
Watch and pray. Then you won’t fall into sin when you are tempted. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak.”
Jesus Sends Out the Twelve Disciples
They had gathered together to make war against the rider on the horse and his army
The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city
Marriage When the Dead Rise
What they say is that the -year-old man, who has been following since the age of , has not been able to take the test, whether he or not ።
We trust in the Lord. So we are sure that you are doing the things we tell you to do. And we are sure that you will keep on doing them.
Though you do not see him now, you believe in him.
Point out these things to the brothers and sisters. Then you will serve Christ Jesus well. You will show that you’ve grown in the truths of the faith. You will show that you’ve been trained by the good teaching you’ve obeyed.
I myself belong to Israel I am one of Abrahams children I am from the tribe of Benjamin
If someone there works to bring peace, your blessing of peace will rest on them. If not, it will return to you.
God gave his word when he made that promise.
But you didn’t listen.
Our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father loved us By his grace God gave us comfort that will last forever
Im sure that the truth of Christ is in me And Im just as sure that nobody in Achaia will keep me from bragging
The crowd took Jesus to the high priest. All the chief priests, the elders, and the teachers of the law came together.
He was made just like human beings
Another says I follow Apollos
The treats everyone the same
Yet for fourty years they saw what I did
Don’t you believe that I am in the Father? Don’t you believe that the Father is in me?
The church sent them on their way. They traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria. There they told how the Gentiles had turned to God. This news made all the believers very glad.
So the churches were made strong in the faith.
He anointed us.
I do what I don’t want to do. But I am not really the one who is doing it. It is sin living in me that does it.
Instead, they will try to satisfy their own desires.
Right away Jesus said to them, “Be brave! It is I. Don’t be afraid.”
So Johns messengers left Then Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John
You did not give me a kiss
I saw a new heaven and a new earth  The first heaven and the first earth were completely gone There was no longer any sea
It sets a persons whole way of life on fire And the tongue itself is set on fire by hell
The people of Israel tried to obey the law to make themselves right with God. But they didn’t reach their goal of being right with God.
They will never see the glory of the Lord’s strength.
the great city of Babylon will be thrown down
People dont sew a patch of new cloth on old clothes The new piece will pull away from the old That will make the tear worse
Say only what will help to build others up and meet their needs Then what you say will help those who listen
Jesus Honors a Greek Woman’s Faith
The foolish things of God are wiser than human wisdom. The weakness of God is stronger than human strength.
The king was very evil and dishonest with our people. He treated them badly. He forced them to throw out their newborn babies to die.
Then the chief priests met with the elders of the people. They met in the palace of Caiaphas, the high priest.
Here is something to remember The one who plants only a little will gather only a little And the one who plants a lot will gather a lot
He bent over her and commanded the fever to leave, and it left her. She got up right away and began to serve them.
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this witness for the churches. I am the Root and the Son of David. I am the bright Morning Star.”
None of them has been lost
They might turn to the Lord and then he would heal them
Abraham had faith. So when God tested him, Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice. Abraham had held on tightly to the promises. But he was about to offer his one and only son.
Again you say I have the right to do anything But not everything builds us up
You unbelieving and evil people Jesus replied
God didnt give him any property here He didnt even give him enough land to set his foot on
The sun will become dark.
It was Preparation Day. The next day would be a special Sabbath day. The Jewish leaders did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath day. So they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down.
Then I will tell them clearly, ‘I never knew you. Get away from me, you who do evil!’
After he said this, Jesus went on speaking to them. “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep,”
Am I trying to please people?
“The kings of the earth who committed terrible sins with her will weep.
Who will not bring glory to your name?
Leave the Pharisees. They are blind guides. If one blind person leads another blind person, both of them will fall into a pit.”
Instead join with me as I suffer for the good news Gods power will help us do that
They didnt really belong to us
Day and night they watched the city gates closely in order to kill him.
But God continues to give us more grace Thats why Scripture says
seven thousend people for myself. They have not bowed down to Baal.”
I saw the Holy City the new Jerusalem It was coming down out of heaven from God It was prepared like a bride beautifully dressed for her husband
Once Jesus and those who were with him were walking along the road
In fact, the law requires that nearly everything be made “clean” with blood. Without the spilling of blood, no one can be forgiven.
He welcomed all who came to see him
Abraham is our father they answered
You too must be patient. You must remain strong. The Lord will soon come back.
Suppose someone gives even a cup of cold water to a little one who follows me. What I’m about to tell you is true. That person will certainly be rewarded.”
When the Jewish leaders came back with me I didnt waste any time I called the court together the next day I ordered the man to be brought in
In the same way husbands should love their wives They should love them as they love their own bodies Any man who loves his wife loves himself
All these people were still living by faith when they died
Here are the words of Jesus who is the Amen
But Jesus still did not reply Pilate was amazed
At that moment the temple curtain was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook. The rocks split.
Zechariah asked the angel,I am an old man,
I was moving ahead in my Jewish way of life. I went beyond many of my people who were my own age. I held firmly to the teachings passed down by my people.
They were standing at the four corners of the earth
Right away one of them ran and got a sponge. He filled it with wine vinegar and put it on a stick. He offered it to Jesus to drink.
There are different ways to serve But they all come from the same Lord
Then Peter took him by the right hand and helped him up.
The stone the builders didnt accept
We accept what people say when they are witnesses.
He is able to strengthen your faith He does this in keeping with the good news and the message I preach
Christ set us free from the curse of the law. He did it by becoming a curse for us. It is written, “Everyone who is hung on a pole is under God’s curse.”
The crowd spoke up The Law tells us that the Messiah will remain forever they said
But here is how God has shown his love for us While we were still sinners Christ died for us
They both stood up.
I’ve made that very clear to you in every way.
And to still others he gives the ability to explain what was said in those languages.
But they are still in the world, and I am coming to you.
He gave himself to pay for the sins of all people
But there are some of you who do not believe.”
So all of us who are grown up in the faith should see things this way Maybe you think differently about something But God will make it clear to you
“Who is worthy to break the seals
Greet one another with a holy kiss.
The time will come when people wont put up with true teaching
did you bring me sacrifices and
He scattered the seed on the ground. Some fell on a path. Birds came and ate it up.
His life has no end.
You have let go of Gods commands And you are holding on to teachings that people have made up
Jesus saw her. He asked her to come to him. He said to her, “Woman, you will no longer be disabled. I am about to set you free.”
don’t just talk about love. Put your love into action.
They began to disagree with what Paul was saying They said evil things against him
Some of you say, “Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food.
“Yes, we are God’s children. So we shouldn’t think that God is made out of gold or silver or stone. He isn’t a statue planned and made by clever people.
Remain joined to me just as I also remain joined to you
Those people had the mark of the beast and worshiped its statue
In that way they will pay back their parents and grandparents. That pleases God.
But whoever eats this bread will live forever
So they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down.
But she has been pregnant for six months now
Annas and Caiaphas were high priests.
Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea This happened while Herod was king of Judea After Jesus birth Wise Men from the east came to Jerusalem
Brothers and sisters here is a mystery
Then God made a covenant with Abraham. God told him that circumcision would show who the members of the covenant were. Abraham became Isaac’s father. He circumcised Isaac eight days after he was born. Later, Isaac became Jacob’s father. Jacob had  sons. They became the founders of the  tribes of Israel.
At that time, Simon’s mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever.
Jesus rose from the dead early on the first day of the week. He appeared first to Mary Magdalene. He had driven seven demons out of her.
Aren’t you like judges who have evil thoughts?
When I planned all this, was I ready to change my mind for no good reason?
The one who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, because I always do what pleases him.”
I will give that person the right to sit with me on my throneIn the same way I had victory Then I sat down with my Father on his throne
Jesus replied Moses let you divorce your wives because you were stubborn But it was not this way from the beginning
Think about how far you have fallen Turn away from your sins Do the things you did at first If you dont I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place
The Pharisees who had been sent
First the name Melchizedek means king of what is right
The Son is the shining brightness of God’s glory.
Then what will happen to ungodly people and sinners?”
Stay there, and eat and drink anything they give you.
Would you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes? Would you say,
We hear that some people among you don’t want to work and are making trouble. They aren’t really busy. Instead, they are bothering others.
The student is not better than the teacher.
They want you to commit yourselves to them.
That was because it was hidden from them.
Instead they should put on good works as if good works were their clothes This is proper for women who claim to worship God
Brothers and sisters, you are children because of God’s promise just as Isaac was.
I don’t want to see you now while I am just passing through. Instead, I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord allows it.
Some of you say, “I have the right to do anything.” But not everything is helpful. Again some of you say, “I have the right to do anything.” But I will not be controlled by anything.
He would be a dear brother He is very dear to me but even more dear to you
Whoever has something will be given more Whoever has nothing even what they have will be taken away from them
Get up and call on his name. Be baptized.
“Master,” said John, “we saw someone driving out demons in your name. We tried to stop him, because he is not one of us.”
And what about you, Capernaum? Will you be lifted to the heavens? No! You will go down to the place of the dead. Suppose the miracles done in you had been done in Sodom. It would still be here today.
A man named Zacchaeus lived there He was a chief tax collector and was very rich
From the tribe of Benjamin, tewelve thousend.
Young Kasman Passes is a resident resident of the city of Tsitsqa።
But it is just as I told you. You have seen me, and you still do not believe.
When they found out they said Five loaves and two fish
May grace is given to everyone who loves our Lord Jesus Christ with a love that will never die
But Jesus knew what they were thinking He spoke to the man who had the weak and twisted hand
But first the Son of Man must suffer many things. He will not be accepted by the people of today.
one right act made people right with God. That one right act gave life to all people.
To the ability to control you add the strength to keep going
I pray that what we share by believing will help you understand even more Then you will completely understand every good thing we share by believing in Christ
I always thank my God for you I thank him because of the grace he has given to you who belong to Christ Jesus
So I tell you this. Her many sins have been forgiven. She has shown that she understands this by her great acts of love.
Is everyone an apostle?
They rubbed them in their hands and ate them.
Some people may not welcome you or listen to your words. If they don’t, leave that home or town, and shake the dust off your feet.
Greet each one of the friends there.
The Guards Report to the Chief
And I give you a kingdom just as my Father gave me a kingdom
No one can get rid of an official agreement between people No one can add to it
honor
Children obey your parents in everything That pleases the Lord
This covenant is better than the old one
False prophets belong to the world
Run away from the evil things that young people long for Try hard to do what is right Have faith love and peace Do these things together with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart
You will be made rich in every way Then you can always give freely
Here is how we know we belong to him.
So Joseph went also He went from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea
God did not spare his own Son He gave him up for us all Then wont he also freely give us everything else
Here is my opinion about what is best for you in that matter Last year you were the first to give You were also the first to want to give
They came to ask Philip for a favor Philip was from Bethsaida in Galilee
The number of believers grew every day
You call on a Father who judges each person’s work without favoring one over another. So live as outsiders during your time here. Live with the highest respect for God.
Brothers and sisters, we ask you to accept the godly leaders who work hard among you. They care for you in the Lord. They correct you.
Don’t think you can say to yourselves, ‘Abraham is our father.’ I tell you, God can raise up children for Abraham even from these stones.
But you must be happy with what you have.
They should first learn to put their faith into practice They should care for their own family
Im concerned for those who are in Laodicea Im also concerned for everyone who has not met me in person
Matthat was the son of Levi
God has blessed you more than other women
The kings of the earth who committed terrible sins with her will weep
So you show that you agree with what your people did long ago. They killed the prophets, and now you build the prophets’ tombs.
The mountains could not be found.
You must help us by praying for us.
The Lord said to my Lord
What more can I say? I don’t have time to tell about all the others. I don’t have time to talk about Gideon, Barak, Samson and Jephthah. I don’t have time to tell about David and Samuel and the prophets.
If the building burns up, the builder will lose everything. The builder will be saved, but only like one escaping through the flames.
Control What You Say
Thats because no one can be made right with God by obeying the law
And the seven golden lampstands you saw stand for the seven churches.
They take pride in what they have and what they do
At that moment she fell down at Peter’s feet and died. Then the young men came in. They saw that Sapphira was dead. So they carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
That’s because everyone who is a child of God has won the battle over the world. Our faith has won the battle for us.
The woman said to him, “Sir, give me this water. Then I will never be thirsty. And I won’t have to keep coming here to get water.”
So did his sons and his livestock.
Then if I have to put off my visit you will know how people should act in Gods family The family of God is the church of the living God It is the pillar and foundation of the truth
Melchizedek did not trace his family line from Levi. But he collected a tenth from Abraham. Melchizedek blessed the one who had received the promises.
other mighty people.
Live under the control of the Holy Spirit If you do you will think about what the Spirit wants
Learn a lesson from the fig tree As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out you know that summer is near
And because the Lord was with John, they asked,
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses or gives up their very self
“Brothers and fathers, listen to me!” Stephen replied. “The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham. At that time Abraham was still in Mesopotamia. He had not yet begun living in Harran.
But there is one who brings glory to me
If you say or do things that harm one another, watch out! You could end up destroying one another.
When the captain of the temple guards and the chief priests heard this report, they were bewildered. They wondered what would happen next.
The Lamb and the one hundred fourty four thousend
So why are you turning back to those weak and worthless powers?
You can’t be saved by believing in anyone else. God has given people no other name under heaven that will save them.”
Run away from all these things
Anyone who welcomes one of these little children in my name welcomes me And anyone who welcomes me also welcomes the one who sent me
I just need a break
“So keep watch. You do not know on what day your Lord will come.
Judas knew the place. He was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me.
No, a person is a Jew only if they are a Jew on the inside. And true circumcision means that the heart has been circumcised by the Holy Spirit. The person whose heart has been circumcised does more than obey the written law. The praise that matters for that kind of person does not come from other people. It comes from God.
This is proper for women who claim to worship God
But the one she marries must belong to the Lord.
Dear friends, we have to say these things. But we are sure of better things in your case. We are talking about the things that have to do with being saved.
It is clear that our Lord came from the family line of Judah.
When Paul saw these people, he thanked God for them and was encouraged by them.
But the gate is small and the road is narrow that leads to life. Only a few people find it.
Judas Iscariot was one of them too He was the one who was later going to hand Jesus over to his enemies
But the whole crowd shouted Kill this man But let Barabbas go
He appeared to James. Then he appeared to all the apostles.
She must be well known for the good things she does. That includes bringing up children. It includes inviting guests into her home. It includes washing the feet of the Lord’s people. It includes helping those who are in trouble. A widow should spend her time doing all kinds of good things.
So he went He did it even though he didnt know where he was going
The one who sent me doesnt want me to lose anyone he has given me He wants me to raise them up on the last day
He has taken note of me.
Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus He didnt want to spend time in Asia Minor
Dont forget to do well Dont forget to share with others
teaching
He came to be a witness about that light. He was a witness so that all people might believe.
Love is not happy with evil But it is full of joy when the truth is spoken
There was no longer any sea
It will all come about when history has been completed God will then bring together all things in heaven and on earth under Christ
Jesus gave strict orders not to let anyone know what had happened And he told them to give her something to eat
Those things happened to them as examples for us
It was almost time for the Jewish Passover Feast. So Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
God is working in you. He wants your plans and your acts to fulfill his good purpose.
Jesus said to him, “Let dead people bury their own dead.
He'll never beat me.
“Men of Galilee,” they said, “why do you stand here looking at the sky? Jesus has been taken away from you into heaven. But he will come back in the same way you saw him go.”
Show me your faith that doesn’t cause you to do good deeds.
I knew you'd find Abraham .
The disciples became sad One by one they said to him Surely you dont mean me
They have closed their eyes.
He went a little farther. Then he fell to the ground. He prayed that, if possible, the hour might pass by him.
“I have not been speaking to you plainly. But a time is coming when I will speak clearly. Then I will tell you plainly about my Father.
And they must not commit sexual sins
That same day the Sadducees came to Jesus with a question. They do not believe that people rise from the dead.
Both he and his angels lost their place in heaven.
But now he has become useful to you and to me.
That person must choose to do what God wants them to do
Suppose someone slaps you on one cheek Let them slap you on the other cheek as well
He will teach people who don’t obey to be wise and do what is right.
“Look!” he said. “I see heaven open. The Son of Man is standing at God’s right hand.”
But they couldn’t find them. So they dragged Jason and some other believers to the city officials. “These men have caused trouble all over the world,” they shouted. “Now they have come here.
Keep us from sinning when we are tempted.Save us from the evil one.’
The church sent them on their way They traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria There they told how the Gentiles had turned to God
But here is the order of events. Christ is the first of those who rise from the dead. When he comes back, those who belong to him will be raised.
peace.
I think it is right for me to remind you. It is right as long as I live in this tent. I’m talking about my body.
Suppose someone takes away any words from this book of prophecy. Then God will take away from that person the blessings told about in this book. God will take away their share in the tree of life. God will also take away their place in the Holy City.
And no one can open what he shuts
Jesus replied, “I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.
They ruled fairly.
I have to go to sleep.
Her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had been very kind to her. They shared her joy.
He went out again about noon and at three oclock and did the same thing
Sit on the floor by my feet
He stood up to read.
To those who are weak I became weak That was to win the weak I have become all things to all people
My brothers and sisters, suppose one of you wanders away from the truth. And suppose someone brings that person back.
God also made everything through him.
All who were sitting in the Sanhedrin looked right at Stephen They saw that his face was like the face of an angel
But because of the Pharisees they would not openly admit they believed They were afraid they would be thrown out of the synagogue
Then Peter said, “Master, the people are crowding and pushing against you.”
Paul and his companions traveled from town to town. They reported what the apostles and elders in Jerusalem had decided. The people were supposed to obey what was in the report.
So they accomplished nothing
Carry one another’s heavy loads.
The first terrible judgment is past.
Then you will be able to see
They love to sit down in the place of honor at dinners They also love to have the most important seats in the synagogues
But I said this for the benefit of the people standing here. I said it so they will believe that you sent me.”
How can you possibly not understand? I wasn’t talking to you about bread. But watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
They set traps for him They wanted to catch him in something he might say
The son said to him Father I have sinned against heaven and against you I am no longer fit to be called your son
Who was God angry with for fourty years?
“You mean he has fooled you also?” the Pharisees asked.
Then he came back. Again he found them sleeping. They couldn’t keep their eyes open.
But God gave it to Abraham as a free gift through a promise
Wear on your feet what will prepare you to tell the good news of peace
‘That’s why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife.
This man whom you see and know was made strong because of faith in Jesus’ name.
Felix knew all about the Way of Jesus. So he put off the trial for the time being. “Lysias the commanding officer will come,” he said. “Then I will decide your case.”
They will do things like that because they do not know the Father or me.
Once you had not received mercy
This stone is very valuable to you who believe. But to people who do not believe,
When they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.
Again the high priest asked him Are you the Messiah Are you the Son of the Blessed One
The people of the island honored us in many ways. When we were ready to sail, they gave us the supplies we needed.
Because of his faith Abel still speaks. He speaks even though he is dead.
Some of the people went ahead of him, and some followed. They all shouted,
To knowledge, add the ability to control yourselves. To the ability to control you, add the strength to keep going. To the strength to keep going, add godliness.
Some of you are jealous. Some of you argue.
MATTHEW 
Remember those earlier days after you received the light. You remained strong in a great battle that was full of suffering.
“Come to me, all you who are tired and are carrying heavy loads. I will give you rest.
‘But you have a few people in Sardis who are pure. They aren’t covered with evil like dirty clothes. They will walk with me, dressed in white, because they are worthy.
Some people who were there at that time told Jesus about certain Galileans Pilate had mixed their blood with their sacrifices
I have to go to bed
This is how my Father in heaven will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother or sister from your heart
“Fellow Israelites, help us!” they shouted. “This is the man who teaches everyone in all places against our people. He speaks against our law and against this holy place. Besides, he has brought Greeks into the temple. He has made this holy place ‘unclean.’ ”
At one time you didn’t know God. You were slaves to gods that are really not gods at all.
I dont have time to tell about all the others I dont have time to talk about Gideon Barak Samson and Jephthah
Also a large number of priests began to obey Jesus teachings
Jesus called the crowd to him. He said, “Listen and understand.
Those who have served well earn the full respect of others.
So anyone who chooses to be the worlds friend becomes Gods enemy
But rules like these don’t help. They don’t stop people from chasing after sinful pleasures.
The jailer called out for some lights
The fact is, you have had five husbands. And the man you live with now is not your husband. What you have just said is very true.”
he is the head of the body, which is the church. He is the beginning.
So everything will be destroyed in this way. And what kind of people should you be? You should lead holy and godly lives.
Do we have hope in Christ only for this life Then people should pity us more than anyone else
The leaders saw how bold Peter and John were. They also realized that Peter and John were ordinary men with no training. This surprised the leaders. They realized that these men had been with Jesus.
Some of you have become proud You act as if I werent coming to you
We say that he is Lord And we say that we serve you because of Jesus
Keep on doing these things. Give them your complete attention. Then everyone will see how you are coming along.
Jesus answered What Im about to tell you is true
Sin entered the world because one man sinned
I, Paul, am writing this letter. Silas and Timothy join me in writing.
We will meet the Lord in the air. And we will be with him forever.
“You are worthy, our Lord and God!
but they obey the law They will prove that you are guilty You are breaking the law even though you have the written law and are circumcised
The second one married her
I am from heaven
“Then the king told his slaves, ‘Tie up his hands and feet. Throw him outside into the darkness. Out there people will weep and grind their teeth.’
But they didn’t see it.
One day Jesus was praying alone Only his disciples were with him
You nest of poisonous snakes How can you who are evil say anything good Your mouths say everything that is in your hearts
Their throats are like open graves
everything you do is great and wonderful.
You showed it when you helped his people
I didnt preach my message with clever and compelling words Instead my preaching showed the Holy Spirits power
Are you more important than he is?”
At the same time that Jesus did those signs, many of the Jewish leaders believed in him.
“Do you understand all these things?” Jesus asked.
Because of the good news I am being held by chains as the Lords messenger
The two are at war with each other Thats why you are not supposed to do whatever you want
I am not even like this tax collector.
Think about how far you have fallen!
But there are some of you who do not believe
All the believers, including their whole families, went with us out of the city. There on the beach we got down on our knees to pray.
We dont want you to mourn as other people do They mourn because they dont have any hope
That is what the people of long ago were praised for.
It doesn’t go into their heart. It goes into their stomach. Then it goes out of the body.” In saying this, Jesus was calling all foods “clean.”
The message they heard didnt have any value for them Thats because they didnt share the faith of those who obeyed
But my life means nothing to me. My only goal is to finish the race. I want to complete the work the Lord Jesus has given me. He wants me to tell others about the good news of God’s grace.
“Come!” And the person who hears should say,
The seven days of cleansing were almost over Some Jews from Asia Minor saw Paul at the temple They stirred up the whole crowd and grabbed Paul
But they shouted even louder Crucify him
an earthquake
The Lord will give each of them a reward for their work.
Yes it is Lord she said Even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their owners table
Besides, a wide space has been placed between us and you. So those who want to go from here to you can’t go. And no one can cross over from there to us.’
On his journey Saul approached Damascus
I won't stay silent.
You shouldnt give because you are forced to God loves a cheerful giver
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
But I was born a citizen Paul replied
Peter and John were speaking to the people The priests the captain of the temple guard
So get rid of everything that is sinful Get rid of the evil that is all around us Dont be too proud to accept the word that is planted in you It can save you
The Lords eyes look on godly people
They will hate what is good
You can’t drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons too.
He studied very hard.
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God planned. Our brother Timothy joins me in writing.
So I will always remind you of these things.
let us love one another, because love comes from God.
So you are witnesses against yourselves. You admit that you are the children of those who murdered the prophets.
Also give my greetings to Nympha and the church that meets in her house
Your relative Elizabeth will have a child even though she is old.
Then nothing will stand in the way of your prayers
The governor read the letter. He asked Paul where he was from. He learned that Paul was from Cilicia.
Try it.
A strong wind was blowing, and the water became rough.
They will rise first
The virgin is going to have a baby She will give birth to a son And he will be called Immanuel  The name Immanuel means God with us
Then Jesus went through the towns and villages teaching the people He was on his way to Jerusalem
The high priest carries the blood of animals into the Most Holy Room He brings their blood as a sin offering But the bodies are burned outside the camp
His father was a Greek
I serve the church. God appointed me to bring the complete word of God to you.
He is the God who is able to save life or destroy it.
He said If even an animal touches the mountain
This will be my third visit to you Scripture says Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses
So I turned away from them
I serve God,
Everyone who has believed will be amazed when they see him. This includes you, because you believed the witness we gave you.
During this time all the people were crying and sobbing loudly over the child
And what kind of people should you be?
If they obeyed my teaching they will obey yours also
You accepted it for what it really is.
We are fools for Christ
It will be a boy, and you must call him John.
Then the disciples understood that Jesus was talking to them about John the Baptist.
The Last Supper
The God who gives peace brought him back from the dead He did it because of the blood of the eternal covenant
He gave good reasons for believing the truth about God’s kingdom.
But I might stay with you for a while. I might even spend the winter. Then you can help me on my journey everywhere I go.
they said God has come to help his people
Then you will be children of your Father who is in heaven. He causes his sun to shine on evil people and good people. He sends rain on those who do right and those who don’t.
They are like children sitting in the market and calling out to each other. They say,
and no human mind has known.”
“He went out again about noon and at three o’clock and did the same thing.
After they have come through hard times, this person will receive a crown. The crown is life itself. The Lord has promised it to those who love him.
Jesus Gives Blessings
When I was a child, I talked like a child.
Go away he said What do you want with us Jesus of Nazareth
People who are ungodly run after all those things. Your Father who is in heaven knows that you need them.
Gentiles do not have the law. Sometimes they just naturally do what the law requires. They are a law for themselves. This is true even though they don’t have the law.
You killed the one who gives life.
Jesus called a little child over to him. He had the child stand among them.
So he went to help him He got even by killing the man
Then Peter said, “Ananias, why did you let Satan fill your heart?
A go-between means that there is more than one side to an agreement. But God didn’t use a go-between when he made his promise to Abraham.
I am not talking about all of you
Then he added
Dont be too quick to place your hands on others to set them apart to serve God
The priest of Zeus brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates He and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to Paul and Barnabas
It is time for judgment to begin with the household of God
Could this be the Messiah
Every tongue will have to tell the truth about God.’ ”
They have lost all feeling for what is right So they have given themselves over to all kinds of evil pleasures They take part in every kind of unclean act And they are full of greed
Then we can give our attention to prayer and to teaching Gods word
The word of God is alive and active. It is sharper than any sword that has two edges. It cuts deep enough to separate soul from spirit. It can separate bones from joints. It judges the thoughts and purposes of the heart.
Now then you and the Sanhedrin must make an appeal to the commanding officer Ask him to bring Paul to you Pretend you want more facts about his case We are ready to kill him before he gets here
We want you to be very strong in keeping with his glorious power
As you know we think that people who dont give up are blessed
When they heard this, they praised God.
Until I put your enemies Under your control
So Jesus told them, “The time for me to show who I really am is not here yet. For you, any time would be the right time.
They will break them to pieces like clay pots
In a race all the runners run But only one gets the prize You know that dont you
Then someone came and said, “Look! The men you put in jail are standing in the temple courtyard. They are teaching the people.”
The Lord will punish everyone who commits these kinds of sins. We have already told you and warned you about this.
Do you have the gift of prophecy Then use it according to the faith you have
The jailer told Paul The judges have ordered me to set you and Silas free You can leave now Go in peace
Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem This time I went with Barnabas I took Titus along also
Simon watched as the apostles placed their hands on them. He saw that the Spirit was given to them. So he offered money to Peter and John. He said, “Give me this power too. Then everyone I place my hands on will receive the Holy Spirit.”
Someone told him, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside. They want to see you.”
The Berean Jews were very glad to receive Paul’s message. They studied the Scriptures carefully every day. They wanted to see if what Paul said was true. So they were nobler than the Thessalonian Jews.
Here are the words of Jesus,
Thats why I am sending him to you I want you to know how we are And I want him to encourage you
“But here is what I tell you who are listening.
A good tree can’t bear bad fruit. And a bad tree can’t bear good fruit.
All this took about four hundred fifty years. “After this, God gave them judges until the time of Samuel the prophet.
But Isaiah also speaks about what God says concerning Israel God said
But when Herod heard this, he said, “I had John’s head cut off. And now he has been raised from the dead!”
You also are like living stones. As you come to Christ, you are being built into a house for worship. There you will be holy priests. You will offer spiritual sacrifices. God will accept them because of what Jesus Christ has done.
When Pilate heard that he was even more afraid
The way we show our love is to obey God’s commands.
And he begged Jesus again and again not to send them out of the area
He trims every branch that does bear fruit Then it will bear even more fruit
The believers who had been scattered preached the word everywhere they went.
At that time Gallio was governor of Achaia
“Come. See a man who told me everything I’ve ever done.
Here is how you can recognize the Spirit of God Every spirit agreeing that Jesus Christ came in a human body belongs to God
Dont do it because you want to get money in dishonest ways Do it because you really want to serve
At one time you were in the dark
He saidThey are the ones who have come out of the time of terrible suffering
David did not go up to heaven
Again I ask
He is doing the work of the Lord just as I am
My brothers and sisters, most of you shouldn’t become teachers. That’s because you know that those of us who teach will be held more accountable.
Her spirit returned and right away she stood up
David saw what was coming So he spoke about the Messiah rising from the dead
Why did you do that
We have been set free because of what Christ has done Because he bled and died our sins have been forgiven We have been set free because Gods grace is so rich
Is there any advantage in being a Jew
May no one live in it
At the feast the Jewish leaders were watching for Jesus. They were asking, “Where is he?”
My whole body will be full of hope
How he judges is more than we can understand
I am not controlled by a demon said Jesus I honor my Father
Instead, perfect love drives away fear.
Again he said he was not. With a curse he said, “I don’t know the man!”
But if you do marry someone you have not sinned
These enemies left our community of believers
You always show me the path that leads to life.
God told me to make clear to everyone how the mystery came about. In times past it was kept hidden in the mind of God, who created all things.
Here is a saying you can trust
Settle the matter yourselves. I will not be a judge of such things.”
To be a child of God has nothing to do with human parents. Children of God are not born because of human choice or because a husband wants them to be born. They are born because of what God does.
Jesus and his disciples came to Bethsaida. Some people brought a blind man to him. They begged Jesus to touch him.
Then his disciples asked each other Did someone bring him food
Then he adds
They aren’t really busy.
Now someone else is building on it.
But his son by the free woman was born because of God’s promise.
The royal law is found in Scripture It says Love your neighbor as you love yourself If you really keep this law you are doing what is right
“‘People of Israel, did you bring me sacrifices and offerings
I am coming soon Hold on to what you have Then no one will take away your crown
So even though I wrote to you, it wasn’t because of the one who did the wrong. It wasn’t because of the one who was hurt either. Instead, I wrote you so that in the sight of God you could see for yourselves how faithful you are to us.
From that time on Jesus began to explain to his disciples what would happen to him. He told them he must go to Jerusalem. There he must suffer many things from the elders, the chief priests and the teachers of the law. He must be killed and on the third day rise to life again.
There they met a Jew named Bar-Jesus.
Workers are worthy of their pay
My son Timothy, I am giving you this command. It is in keeping with the prophecies once made about you. By remembering them, you can fight the battle well.
You won’t know when I will come to you.
But blessed are your eyes because they see. And blessed are your ears because they hear.
Two Kinds of Olive Branches
They were holding golden bowls full of incense They stand for the prayers of Go  ds people
It is the same with Christ.
Jesus Feeds the Five Thousand
Anyone who does not love me will not obey my teaching. The words you hear me say are not my own. They belong to the Father who sent me.
Anyone who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life
They went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him.
My brothers and sisters, you were chosen to be free. But don’t use your freedom as an excuse to live under the power of sin. Instead, serve one another in love.
Here is what love is
His bride has made herself ready.
I, John, am a believer like you. I am a friend who suffers like you. As members of Jesus’ royal family, we can put up with anything that happens to us.
His love is made complete in us.
I’m not writing because I hope you will do things like that for me.
So Simon Peter climbed back into the boat. He dragged the net to shore. It was full of large fish. There were onehundred fifty three of them. But even with that many fish the net was not torn.
They will want to die,
“Lord, don’t trouble yourself. I am not good enough to have you come into my house.
That means to go up into heaven and bring Christ down
But the people thought highly of them
Then Jesus directed them to have all the people sit down in groups on the green grass.
Think about the ravens
He must never drink wine or other such drinks.
Evil spirits screamed and came out of many people
My brothers and sisters, don’t speak against one another. Anyone who speaks against a brother or sister speaks against the law. And anyone who judges another believer judges the law. When you judge the law, you are not keeping it. Instead, you are acting as if you were its judge.
One day we were going to the place of prayer. On the way we were met by a female slave. She had a spirit that helped her tell people what was going to happen. She earned a lot of money for her owners by doing this.
But if you do marry someone, you have not sinned. And if a virgin marries someone, she has not sinned. But those who marry someone will have many troubles in this life. I want to save you from this.
announces the Lord
Then Simeon blessed them. He said to Mary, Jesus’ mother,
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
Blessed is the person who keeps on going when times are hard
See I have told you ahead of time
Pray that I will preach it clearly, as I should.
You will go hungry
He wanted to tell you his plans for you.
So he promised to give her anything she asked for
I can speak Chinese.
So I say, live by the Holy Spirit’s power. Then you will not do what your desires controlled by sin want you to do.
So then welcome him as a brother in the Lord with great joy
When a flood comes the river rushes against the houseBut the water cant shake it The house is well built
Christ Jesus told the truth when he was a witness in front of Pontius Pilate In the sight of God and Christ I give you a command
If they have a question about something they should ask their own husbands at home It is shameful for women to speak in church meetings
After he said that he showed them his hands and feet
Here is how we know that we love God’s children.
Jacob had faith So he blessed each of Josephs sons He blessed them when he was dying
They fall into a trap.
They would try to keep the Jewish leaders from arresting me. My kingdom is from another place.”
Hosanna in the highest heaven
He is the one who comes after me
A dinner was given at Bethany to honor Jesus. Martha served the food. Lazarus was among the people at the table with Jesus.
We are writing only what you can read and understand. And here is what I hope.
Peleg was the son of Eber
I have faith in God. It will happen just as he told me.
But his son by the free woman was born because of Gods promise
Jesus said, “I have come into this world to judge it. I have come so that people who are blind will see. I have come so that people who can see will become blind.”
But God was not pleased with most of them. Their bodies were scattered in the desert.
Outside the city are those who are impure.
Some say, “His letters sound important. They are powerful.
Jesus said, “Here is a saying you will certainly apply to me. ‘Doctor, heal yourself!’ And you will tell me this. ‘Do the things here in your hometown that weheard you did in Capernaum.’ ”
No one lights a lamp and hides it No one puts it under a bowlInstead they put a lamp on its stand
Suppose someone stays away from what is common
But no one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him.
Suppose it is hard for godly people to be saved
My brothers and sisters you will face all kinds of trouble When you do think of it as pure joy
He said Some Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul to the Sanhedrin tomorrow They will pretend they want more facts about him
Dear friends, I know you are looking forward to this. So try your best to be found pure and without blame. Be at peace with God.
The owner of the house will get up and close the door Then you will stand outside knocking and begging You will say Sir open the door for us
Did I fight wild animals in Ephesus with nothing more than human hopes
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will give that person hidden manna to eat.
Then Jesus went through the towns and villages, teaching the people. He was on his way to Jerusalem.
Are you thinking of killing me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?’
This is because I am a witness that their works are evil.
You have lived an easy life on earth
Nothing about him is false
Wash up.
Then the Jewish leaders took Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace of the Roman governor.
Instead, I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord allows it.
You should not take advantage of your brother or sister
Maath was the son of Mattathias.
Hold on to what you believe
So do what we tell you
“But the renters said to each other, ‘This is the one who will receive all the owner’s property someday. Come, let’s kill him. Then everything will be ours.’
because many demons had gone into him
When the Sanhedrin heard this, they covered their ears. They yelled at the top of their voices. They all rushed at him.
The Greek Jews complained about the non-Greek Jews
“He was led like a sheep to be killed.
He said to them, “Can’t you understand yet?”
On the night the Lord Jesus was handed over to his enemies he took bread
So ask the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest field
You are not looking for me because you saw the signs I did. You are looking for me because you ate the loaves until you were full.
I saw a mighty angel calling out in a loud voice. He said, “Who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll?”
Gods New Family of Jews and Gentiles
I have spoken to you very honestly. I am very proud of you. I am very happy. Even with all our troubles, my joy has no limit.
He accepts anyone who has respect for him and does what is right.
These people speak evil about things they don’t understand. They are like wild animals who can’t think. Instead, they do what comes naturally to them. They are born only to be caught and destroyed. Just like animals, these people too will die.
Come and eat the dead bodies of kings,
So they brought him. As soon as the spirit saw Jesus, it threw the boy into a fit. He fell to the ground. He rolled around and foamed at the mouth.
Pray also for me. Pray that whenever I speak, the right words will be given to me. Then I can be bold as I tell the mystery of the good news.
Aren’t rich people taking advantage of you?
But because you say so I will let down the nets
When you do ask for something, you don’t receive it. That’s because you ask for the wrong reason. You want to spend your money on your sinful pleasures.
Jesus said to them What Im about to tell you is true
Or did the word of God begin with you? Or are you the only people it has reached?
The apostles gathered around Jesus. They told him all they had done and taught.
But we do it to get a crown that will last forever
“His master replied, ‘You have done well, good and faithful slave! You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master’s happiness!’
From this time on, many of his disciples turned back.
Lead a life of love just as Christ did He loved us He gave himself up for us He was a sweet-smelling offering and sacrifice to God
Through faith in Jesus we have received Gods grace In that grace we stand
Keeping this in mind, we never stop praying for you. Our God has chosen you. We pray that he will make you worthy of his choice. We pray he will make every good thing you want to do come true. We pray that he will do this by his power. We pray that he will make perfect all that you have done by faith.
They chose a lie instead of the truth about God They worshiped and served created things They didnt worship the Creator But he is praised forever Amen
Hold on to what is good.
The Jewish leaders did not want to be made “unclean.” They wanted to be able to eat the Passover meal. So they did not enter the palace.
If the law could, wouldn’t the sacrifices have stopped being offered? The worshipers would have been made “clean” once and for all time. They would not have felt guilty for their sins anymore.
The law appoints as high priests men who are weak But Gods promise came after the law
Then in secret they talked some men into lying about Stephen They said We heard Stephen speak evil things against Moses and against God
When he comes back, those who belong to him will be raised.
We are also sending it to our sister Apphia and to Archippus
When Jesus had finished praying, he left with his disciples. They crossed the Kidron Valley. On the other side there was a garden. Jesus and his disciples went into it.
Then the herd rushed down the steep bank They ran into the lake and drowned
Paul Gives Thanks for the Philippians Gifts
Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus’ glory and spoke about him.
Jesus knew everything that was going to happen to him So he went out and asked them Who do you want
But food doesnt bring us close to God
But he collected a tenth from Abraham.
We will buy and sell and make money
She thought, “I just need to touch his clothes. Then I will be healed.”
I want you to command certain people not to teach things that aren’t true.
The lampstand was in the first room.
You have lived an easy life on earth. You have given yourselves everything you wanted. You have made yourselves fat like cattle that will soon be butchered.
Then the disciples went back to where they were staying
Jesus saw the crowd around him. So he gave his disciples orders to go to the other side of the Sea of Galilee.
The blackest darkness is reserved for them
Remember that I am being held by chains.
Choosing Elders Who Love What Is Good
Then the man who had the evil spirit jumped on Sceva’s sons. He overpowered them all. He gave them a terrible beating. They ran out of the house naked and bleeding.
In fact, none of you can enter a strong man’s house unless you tie him up first. Then you can steal things from his house.
You will be arrested and brought to trial But dont worry ahead of time about what you will say Just say what God brings to your mind at the time It is not you speaking but the Holy Spirit
But I’m so tricky! I have caught you by tricking you! Or so you think!
Then the four living creatures and the  elders fell down in front of the Lamb Each one had a harp
The smoke from her fire goes up for ever and ever
Grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ
You know what God wants.
All the green grass was burned up.
“Learn a lesson from the fig tree. As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near.
Do your best to come to me quickly
Even your parents brothers sisters relatives and friends will hand you over to the authorities The authorities will put some of you to death
thirsty
The heated stone is a depiction of the common and the stone was raised with the grass yell being thrown to show the Jews throwing the cross at dirt።
When they heard this they praised God
and said, “So you are going to destroy the temple and build it again in three days? Then save yourself! Come down from the cross, if you are the Son of God!”
When we got to Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself. But a soldier guarded him.
the angel told him Follow me
But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness They walk around in the darkness They dont know where they are going The darkness has made them blind
Do just the opposite. Scripture says,
The one who was healed had no idea who it was
I do not pray that you will take them out of the world. I pray that you will keep them safe from the evil one.
After these things I heard a roar in heaven It sounded like a huge crowd shouting
He joined them at the table Then he took bread and gave thanks He broke it and began to give it to them
Suddenly the angel left Peter.
He will not wait any longer.”
Day after day every priest stands and does his special duties He offers the same sacrifices again and again But they can never take away sins
Christ is your life. When he appears again, you also will appear with him in heaven’s glory.
Salt is good But suppose it loses its saltiness How can it be made salty again
Paul Continues His Journey to Jerusalem
God supplies seed for the person who plants. He supplies bread for food. God will also supply and increase the amount of your seed.
And they will be my people
I give a command to those who are married.
Then someone must explain what was said.
The ship and everything in it will be lost. Our own lives will be in danger also.”
All the nations of the earth
He will announce to the nations that everything will be made right
And by doing these things, remain in God’s love as you wait. You are waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you eternal life.
We don’t belong to the night. We don’t belong to the darkness.
But I see another law working in me. It fights against the law of my mind. It makes me a prisoner of the law of sin. That law controls me.
Paul Preaches in Lystra
Jesus was handed over to die for our sins. He was raised to life in order to make us right with God.
You are like God’s field.
When others say bad things about us we answer with kind words We have become the worlds garbage We are everybodys trash right up to this moment
Do not handle Do not taste Do not touch
In Galilee these women had followed Jesus They had taken care of his needs Many other women were also there They had come up with him to Jerusalem
But what I’m about to tell you is true. It is for your good that I am going away. Unless I go away, the Friend will not come to help you. But if I go, I will send him to you.
But he said to me, “My grace is all you need.
Let the Holy Spirit guide and help you when you pray
He has sent me so that the blind will see again.
Then in all things God will be praised through Jesus Christ.
“Get behind me, Satan!” he said. “You are not thinking about the things God cares about. Instead, you are thinking only about the things humans care about.”You Must Pick Up Your Cross
They were taught to worship in the temple
But whoever eats this bread will live forever.”
Jesus looked at him Then he said How hard it is for rich people to enter Gods kingdom
“The slaves asked him, ‘Do you want us to go and pull up the weeds?’
Their stomach is their god.
I miss Marys cooking
For many days he was seen by those who had traveled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem
I have never eaten anything that is not pure and clean
They all answered Crucify him
he was taken up to paradise. He heard things there that couldn’t be put into words. They were things that no one is allowed to talk about.
You will see but never know what you are seeing.”
Then people could become right with God by obeying the law.
The people heard his words Some of them said This man must be the Prophet weve been expecting
His head was brought in on a big plate and given to the girl She then carried it to her mother
It is not proud
I am sending this letter to all of you in Rome. You are loved by God and appointed to be his holy people.
Then we will not be naked.
God will destroy both of them.”
A go-between means that there is more than one side to an agreement
Christs Sacrifice Is Once and for All Time
“Do not judge other people. Then you will not be judged.
I command you to follow these instructions I command you in the sight of God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels Treat everyone the same Dont favor one person over another
But when you give a banquet, invite those who are poor. Also invite those who can’t see or walk.
If you really keep this law you are doing what is right
As a result they dont live the rest of their earthly life for evil human desires Instead they live to do what God wants
Stop always wanting more and more.
Jesus told a story to some people who were sure they were right with God They looked down on everyone else
They traveled all across the island until they came to Paphos
Give him glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. Give him glory through all time and for ever and ever. Amen.
Jesus and John the Baptist
Do I brag too much about the authority the Lord gave me? If I do, it’s because I want to build you up, not tear you down. And I’m not ashamed of that kind of bragging.
Many will not believe the truth They will take pleasure in evil They will be judged
God has said
“Am I leading a band of armed men against you?” asked Jesus. “Do you have to come out with swords and clubs to capture me?
Levi got up, left everything and followed him.
By your magic spell all the nations were led astray
How can we thank God enough for you?
Oh please!
God will destroy both of them
now something more important than Solomon is here.
Jesus replied, “You don’t realize now what I am doing.
Im out of my mind to talk like this
Peter asked Lord are you telling this story to us or to everyone
So no one will be considered right with God by obeying the law Instead the law makes us more aware of our sin
God didnt spare the natural branches He wont spare you either
Then it says I will return to the house I left When it arrives there it finds the house empty The house has been swept clean and put in order
I sent Tychicus to Ephesus.
Before that he was useless to you But now he has become useful to you and to me
Im not saying this because I need anything I have learned to be content no matter what happens to me
I wanted to know that I had not been running my race for any purpose.
Because of what he said, many more people became believers.
What the Father does, the Son also does.
Some of you are trying to be made right with God by obeying the law.
But there are others who only look out for themselves
The parts that can be shown dont need special care
People like that have a lot to learn What I say in my letters when Im away from you I will do in my actions when Im with you
Jesus Makes Claims About Himself
This is how it will be on judgment day. The angels will come. They will separate the people who did what is wrong from those who did what is right.
He is doing the work of the Lord, just as I am.
Guard the truth of the good news that you were trusted with Guard it with the help of the Holy Spirit who lives in us
So let us boldly approach Gods throne of grace Then we will receive mercy We will find grace to help us when we need it
She thought I just need to touch his clothes Then I will be healed
If you do what is right you wont need to be afraid of your rulers But watch out if you do what is wrong
Let this Messiah, this king of Israel, come down now from the cross! When we see that, we will believe.” Those who were being crucified with Jesus also made fun of him.
Hurry home.
From the tribe of Joseph tewelve thousend
Jesus told this story. But the Pharisees didn’t understand what he was telling them.
Then he sat down at the right hand of the King the Majesty in heaven
You longed for evil things.
If the law could wouldnt the sacrifices have stopped being offered The worshipers would have been made clean once and for all time They would not have felt guilty for their sins anymore
From the beginning we have heard that we should love one another.
Do not move around from house to house.
Anyone who does wrong will be paid back for what they do God treats everyone the same
That’s because I hear about your love for all God’s people. I also hear about your faith in the Lord Jesus.
The ax is ready to cut the roots of the trees All the trees that dont produce good fruit will be cut down They will be thrown into the fire
Another Challenge to Jesus Claims
His wife Elizabeth also came from the family line of Aaron
Brothers and sisters we ask you to accept the godly leaders who work hard among you They care for you in the Lord They correct you
They had heard the sound. But they didn’t see anyone.
That same day two of Jesus followers were going to a village called Emmaus It was about seven miles from Jerusalem
While they were eating, Jesus took bread. He gave thanks and broke it. He handed it to his disciples and said, “Take it. This is my body.”
I can see the light
He was sent to a virgin The girl was engaged to a man named Joseph He came from the family line of David The virgins name was Mary
How terrible it will be for them! They have followed the way of Cain. They have rushed into the same mistake Balaam made. They did it because they loved money. They are like Korah. He turned against his leaders. These people will certainly be destroyed, just as Korah was.
Some people enjoy pretending they aren’t proud. They worship angels. But don’t let people like that judge you. These people tell you every little thing about what they have seen. They are proud of their useless ideas. That’s because their minds are not guided by the Holy Spirit.
He also realized that Sarah was too old to have children
He said I am not
How terrible for you when everyone says good things about you!
I saw an angel coming down out of heaven. He had the key to the Abyss. In his hand he held a heavy chain.
I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written.
But anyone who speaks evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
We all have gifts They differ according to the grace God has given to each of us Do you have the gift of prophecy Then use it according to the faith you have
Earthly bodies have another
He must not get angry easily He must not get drunk He must not push people around He must not try to get money by cheating people
The foolish things of God are wiser than human wisdom
All Israel Will Be Saved
So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby.
Moses thought his own people would realize that God was using him to save them
I am not from this world
Then it became possible for you to belong to him.
Let this Messiah this king of Israel come down now from the cross When we see that we will believe Those who were being crucified with Jesus also made fun of him
So I tell you today that I am not guilty if any of you don’t believe.
The people will turn their ears away from the truth. They will turn to stories that aren’t true.
So the words spoken by the prophet came true He had saidI will open my mouth and tell stories
Seth was the son of Adam
They will be priests of God and of Christ
The way we show our love is to obey God’s commands. He commands you to lead a life of love. That’s what you have heard from the beginning.
The law was given so that sin would increase But where sin increased Gods grace increased even more
But Jesus knew what they were trying to do So he asked Why are you trying to trap me Bring me a silver coin Let me look at it
thunder
The power of the Most High God will cover you.
Everyone says good things about Demetrius.
I needed clothes And you gave them to me I was sick And you took care of me I was in prison And you came to visit me
After they had made fun of him they took off the purple robe They put his own clothes back on him Then they led him out to nail him to a cross
Our people have always worshiped on this mountain.
They knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away That is how it will be when the Son of Man comes
There the servant of a Roman commander was sick and about to die.
As far as the good news is concerned; the people of Israel are enemies. This is for your good. But as far as God’s choice is concerned, the people of Israel are loved. This is because of God’s promises to the founders of our nation.
And suppose the one inside answers, ‘Don’t bother me. The door is already locked. My children and I are in bed. I can’t get up and give you anything.’
I care very little if I am judged by you or by any human court
“But no one knows about that day or hour. Not even the angels in heaven know. The Son does not know. Only the Father knows.
They questioned me. And they wanted to let me go. They saw I wasn’t guilty of any crime worthy of death.
Jesus said, “Feed my lambs.”
Even if my letter made you sad, I’m not sorry I sent it.
Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph saw where Jesus’ body had been placed.
It judges the thoughts and purposes of the heart
They are leaders among the apostles They became believers in Christ before I did
They dont know where they are going
I tell you, no! But unless you turn away from your sins, you will all die too.”
That word contains the mystery that has been hidden for many ages. But now it has been made known to the Lord’s people.
Isaac had faith So he blessed Jacob and Esau He told them what was ahead for them
People were really amazed. “He has done everything well,” they said. “He even makes deaf people able to hear. And he makes those who can’t speak able to talk.”
So be very careful how you live Do not live like people who arent wise Live like people who are wise
And what is seed scattered on rocky places like The people hear the message At once they receive it with joy
Have your sins washed away.’
I have suffered terrible beatings.
On the third day there was a wedding. It took place at Cana in Galilee.
Instead they longed for a better country
Paul’s Concern for the Believers in Galatia
The seed on rocky ground stands for those who hear the message and receive it with joy. But they have no roots. They believe for a while. But when they are tested, they fall away from the faith.
They went across the Sea of Galilee to the area of the Gerasenes.
But now I will show you the best way of all
The words from their lips are like the poison of a snake
“Then his master commanded the other slaves, ‘Take the bag of gold from him. Give it to the one who has ten bags.
In the law it is written,
The jailer brought them into his house. He set a meal in front of them. He and everyone who lived with him were filled with joy. They had become believers in God.
No one could heal her
In hell The worms that eat them do not die
I have spoken to you very honestly I am very proud of you I am very happy Even with all our troubles my joy has no limit
When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord suddenly took Philip away. The official did not see him again. He went on his way full of joy.
I'm a social worker.
“Brothers will hand over brothers to be killed. Fathers will hand over their children. Children will rise up against their parents and have them put to death.
So the law is holy.
Jesus replied I will ask you one question Answer me and I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things
Simon replied, “I suppose the one who owed the most money.”“You are right,” Jesus said.
Then they asked Peter to stay with them for a few days
Forgive, and you will be forgiven.
They saw something that looked like fire in the shape of tongues
Because of his faith Moses was the first to keep the Passover Feast He commanded the people of Israel to sprinkle blood on their doorways He did it so that the destroying angel would not touch their oldest sons
Brothers and sisters,
One person was there who had not been able to walk for thirty eight years
Then Jacob went down to Egypt. There he and his family died.
We havent done anything wrong to anyone
And we are his house if we hold tightly to what we are certain about. We must also hold tightly to the hope we boast in.
So we need to choose someone to take his place It will have to be a man who was with us the whole time the Lord Jesus was living among us
Their people treated the false prophets the same way long ago
She was a worshiper of God.
So everything will be destroyed in this way.
“The servant came back and reported this to his master. Then the owner of the house came angry. He ordered his servant, ‘Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the town. Bring in those who are poor. Also bring those who can’t see or walk.’
Their king was the angel of the Abyss In the Hebrew language his name is Abaddon In Greek it is Apollyon His name means Destroyer
He gave himself for us By doing that he set us free from all evil He wanted to make us pure He wanted us to be his very own people He wanted us to desire to do what is good
Apollos had been taught the way of the Lord. He spoke with great power. He taught the truth about Jesus. But he only knew about John’s baptism.
I wish all of you were single like me
Abrham waved
He saved us It wasnt because of the good things we had done It was because of his mercy He saved us by washing away our sins We were born again The Holy Spirit gave us new life
Can you add even one hour to your life by worrying
On his way he met an officialKandake means queen
God made it hard for them to understand
Jesus answered Dont you know me Philip I have been among you such a long time
People were eating and drinking. They were getting married. They were giving their daughters to be married. They did all those things right up to the day Noah entered the ark. Then the flood came and destroyed them all.
So he became higher than the angels
Jesus replied, “Let it be this way for now. It is right for us to do this. It carries out God’s holy plan.” Then John agreed.
Brothers and sisters be patient until the Lord comes
I was born in Kyoto.
When they heard this they didnt object anymore They praised God
We are telling people about these things
Suppose the owner of the house knew at what hour the robber was coming
Is that why he says You cant come where I am going
Christ Jesus saves them. He gives them glory that will last forever.
Do not take a purse or bag or sandals
Brothers and sisters we should always thank God for you That is only right because your faith is growing more and more We also thank God that the love you all have for one another is increasing
you who cant make up your minds
Right away he praised God.
I am already being poured out like a drink offering
More Instructions About Loving and Hating One Another
Whoever belongs to the Son has life Whoever doesnt belong to the Son of God doesnt have life
We are receiving a kingdom that cant be shaken So let us be thankful Then we can worship God in a way that pleases him Let us worship him with deep respect and wonder
The Lamb broke open the second seal. Then I heard the second living creature say, “Come!”
Is anyone among you happy? Then that person should sing songs of praise.
But I give my opinion Because of the Lords mercy I give it as one who can be trusted
It is written The one who boasts should boast about what the Lord has done
They do not allow people to get married They order them not to eat certain foods But God created those foods So people who believe and know the truth should receive them and give thanks for them
And if Christ has not been raised, your faith doesn’t mean anything. Your sins have not been forgiven.
“Because of you, we face death all day long.
Those are the things that make you ‘unclean.’ But eating without washing your hands does not make you ‘unclean.’ ”
Turn Away From Sin or Die
Then he could serve God as a kind and faithful high priest
He must die they answered
Should I come to you to correct and punish you
My dear brothers and
She runs
But you know that Christ came to take our sins away. And there is no sin in him.
While Jesus was still speaking, someone came from the house of Jairus. Jairus was the synagogue leader.
The first one came to him He said Sir your money has earned ten times as much
Jesus called for his  disciples to come to him He gave them authority to drive out evil spirits and to heal every illness and sickness
Then you will save yourself and those who hear you
The royal law is found in Scripture It says
I have to go to sleep
In the same way, you must give up everything you have. Those of you who don’t cannot be my disciple.
I will show you whom you should be afraid of. Be afraid of the one who has the authority to throw you into hell after you have been killed. Yes, I tell you, be afraid of him.
The Plan to Kill Jesus
Then Jesus spoke to his host. “Suppose you give a lunch or a dinner,” he said. “Do not invite your friends, your brothers or sisters, or your relatives, oryour rich neighbors. If you do, they may invite you to eat with them. So you will be paid back.
We know the God who said I am the God who judges people I will pay them back  Scripture also says The Lord will judge his people
Where is your faith he asked his disciples
Saul was also known as Paul He was filled with the Holy Spirit He looked straight at Elymas
Before the law was given, sin was in the world. This is certainly true. But people are not judged for sin when there is no law.
But I will come very soon if thats what the Lord wants Then I will find out how those proud people are talking I will also find out what power they have
He said, “I praise you, Father. You are Lord of heaven and earth.
So they asked Jesus to help her.
They will kill him On the third day he will rise from the dead Then the disciples were filled with deep sadness
The Lord makes me certain that you will see the truth of this The one who has gotten you all mixed up will have to pay the price This will happen no matter who has done it
The one who was free when God chose them is now a slave of Christ
All of you are children of the light. You are children of the day. We don’t belong to the night. We don’t belong to the darkness.
“What if someone says in front of others that they know me? I will also say in front of my Father who is in heaven that I know them.
I am praying for those you have given me, because they are yours.
That is why Scripture says,
So they asked him, “What sign will you give us?
Paul came to Derbe. Then he went on to Lystra.
We are weak
“And you, my child,
So God in his wisdom said
Hide us from the anger of the Lamb!
But Jesus said, “Someone touched me.
be joined to his wife.
Suppose we claim we are without sin. Then we are fooling ourselves. The truth is not in us.
may peace be given to those he is pleased with on earth
“Blessed are you when people make fun of you and hurt you because of me. You are also blessed when they tell all kinds of evil lies about you because of me.
My brothers and sisters, suppose one of you wanders away from the truth.
It is a direct command from the Lord, not from me.
Still other seed fell on good soil. It grew up and produced a crop one hundred times more than the farmer planted.”
You have some books
It’s true that some preach about Christ because they are jealous. But others preach about Christ to help me in my work.
Thats because you know that those of us
Theyll say to the hills Cover us
“Then what should I do with Jesus who is called the Messiah?” Pilate asked.
You didn’t want burnt offerings and sin offerings.
Let us be joyful and glad
Here is how you will know I am telling you the truth
he will tell you what is still going to happen
I have shown you to them
So ask the Lord of the harvest to send workers out into his harvest field
Thats why even the first covenant was not put into effect without the spilling of blood
Solomon was the father of Rehoboam.Rehoboam was the father of Abijah.Abijah was the father of Asa.
Those who sleep, sleep at night.
They asked him, “Then who are you? Are you Elijah?”
But I will take it back again.
Abraham gave him a tenth of everything First the name Melchizedek means king of what is right Also king of Salem means king of peace
We also say good things about him.
Christs love controls us We are sure that one person died for everyone And so everyone died
You must remain strong.
the present or the future
We always thank God for all of you. We keep on praying for you.
Its rider held a bow in his hands
But Jesus said Someone touched me
By doing those things you will pile up burning coals on their heads
you will tell me this Do the things here in your hometown that weheard you did in Capernaum
Two women will be grinding with a hand mill One will be taken and the other left
But he is kind to you. So you must continue to live in his kindness.
She came from very far away to listen to Solomons wisdom
It is written,
I know everybody here.
the Sadducees came up to the apostles.
People who are ungodly run after all those things. Your Father knows that you need them.
Another says, “I follow Apollos.”
They said to Peter and the other apostles,
The Lord said Listen to what the unfair judge says
Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord
He said they would possess the land.
Those who get drunk get drunk at night
These things are examples The two women stand for two covenants One covenant comes from Mount Sinai It gives birth to children who are going to be slaves It is Hagar
You havent come to a blast from Gods trumpet You havent come to a voice speaking to you
And I am certain that it is now alive in you also.
A woman was there who had a sickness that made her bleed.
We serve God in times of glory and shame We serve him whether the news about us is bad or good We are true to our calling But people treat us as if we were pretenders
Because you know all this, you have great joy. You have joy even though you may have had to suffer for a little while. You may have had to suffer sadness in all kinds of trouble.
When the commandment gave sin the opportunity sin tricked me It used the commandment to put me to death
But if you cant control yourselves you should get married
As Jesus was saying these things, a woman in the crowd called out.
I’ll say to myself, “You have plenty of grain stored away for many years. Take life easy. Eat, drink and have a good time.” ’
And blessed is the child you will have
Find out what pleases the Lord
But the Father will send the Friend in my name to help you. The Friend is the Holy Spirit. He will teach you all things. He will remind you of everything I have said to you.
The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering things like this about him.
In the days before the flood, people were eating and drinking. They were getting married. They were giving their daughters to be married. They did all those things right up to the day Noah entered the ark.
Simon Peter has explained to us what God has now done. He has chosen some of the Gentiles to be among his very own people.
Jesus went to Nazareth, where he had been brought up.
That’s because I know who I have believed in.
ACTS 
The Large and Small Gates
Jesus went around doing good.
So the soldiers took the money and did as they were told.
“If the time had not been cut short, no one would live. But because of God’s chosen people, it will be shortened.
You used to live as sinners when you followed the ways of this world
There are four men with us who have made a promise to God
Do all have gifts of healing?
God has given people no other name under heaven that will save them.”
I am joyful with all of you.
Brothers and sisters stop thinking like children
People heard about all that Jesus was doing And many came to him They came from Judea Jerusalem and Idumea They came from the lands east of the Jordan River And they came from the area around Tyre and Sidon
The prayer of a godly person is powerful Things happen because of it
John’s father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit. He prophesied,
This is the covenant I will make with them
I know him.
They said Moses allowed a man to write a letter of divorce and send her away
She poured it on Jesus’ feet and wiped them with her hair.
Can you add even one hour to your life by worrying?
If it seems good for me to go also they will go with me
When these things happen to you, be glad and jump for joy.
As Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him. They called out, “Have mercy on us, Son of David!”
Then if I have to put off my visit, you will know how people should act in God’s family. The family of God is the church of the living God. It is the pillar and foundation of the truth.
We also have the message of the prophets. This message can be trusted completely.
The first beast had given the second beast the power to perform these signs
Dear children dont let anyone lead you astray The person who does what is right is holy just as Christ is holy
He asked What will you give me if I hand Jesus over to you So they counted out thirty silver coins for him
Then dont take them into your house or welcome them
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
Jesus called the crowd to him. He said, “Listen and understand.
I fell to the ground and heard a voice speak to me.
and see good days.
I also appointed you so that the Father will give you what you ask for. He will give you whatever you ask for in my name.
Cut it down Why should it use up the soil
Remain strong in it
But I am writing what amounts to a new command. Its truth was shown in how Jesus lived. It is also shown in how you live. That’s because the darkness is passing away. And the true light is already shining.
The believers from Italy send you their greetings.
“This is the blood of the covenant God has commanded you to keep.”
The leaders could see the man who had been healed. He was standing there with them. So there was nothing they could say.
How deep is the hole?
He's eating an apple.
They had not understood about the loaves They were stubborn
He said to them, “Then give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. And give back to God what belongs to God.”
Why not be treated wrongly?
And let the holy person continue to be holy
Dont we know his father and mother
He was from Bethany, the village where Mary and her sister Martha lived.
Who is your teacher?
“Caesar’s,” they replied.
And as he was praying, heaven was opened.
Eber was the son of Shelah.
Jesus told him, “You people will never believe unless you see signs and wonders.”
His children must be believers.
When I heard this I fell at his feet to worship him
They go in and live there
I will also give the morning star to all who have victory.
You say that people should not commit adultery But you commit adultery You hate statues of gods But you rob temples
They are only a shadow of the things to come But what is real is found in Christ
Aquila and Priscilla greet you warmly because of the Lords love So does the church that meets in their house
You know what God wants. You agree with what is best because the law teaches you.
A Warning against Falling Away
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it.
The Jewish leaders replied, “We have a law.
But if you can get your master to set you free, do it.
But the rest of the people were made stubborn
In everything, do to others what you would want them to do to you. This is what is written in the Law and in the Prophets.
They shouted and threw off their coats. They threw dust into the air.
They were created and they exist.
I made myself known to those who were not asking for Me
He makes those who serve him to be like flashes of lightning.”
“Do not handle! Do not taste! Do not touch!”
Everyone who has will be given more. They will have more than enough. And what about anyone who doesn’t have? Even what they have will be taken away from them.
They must look for peace and
Here’s what believers who are in low positions in life should be proud of. They should be proud that God has given them a high position in the kingdom.
Their minds are twisted As far as the faith is concerned God doesnt accept them
He will hold us responsible for everything we do.
He will strengthen you
But here is the one thing I do.
This is how the holy women of the past used to make them beautiful They put their hope in God And they followed the lead of their own husbands
The name of the star is Wormwood.
Even better, God knows you.
What I’m about to tell you is true. You will not get out until you have paid the very last penny!Adultery
I didnt stir up any trouble
The darkness has made them blind
Jesus is a witness about these things. He says, “Yes. I am coming soon.”
It was then given out to anyone who needed it.
I don’t think I’m in any way less important than those “super-apostles.”
May they make you strong in every good thing you do and say?
Husbands love your wives Love them just as Christ loved the church He gave himself up for her
Timothy, guard what God has trusted you with?
Jesus replied Friend who made me a judge or umpire between you
Would you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes Would you say
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins So he spoke to the man who could not walk Get up he said Take your mat and go home
It is right as long as I live in this tent Im talking about my body
The other ten disciples heard about this. They became angry at the two brothers.
You are worth much more than birds!
They will be separated. Father will turn against son and son against father. Mother will turn against daughter and daughter against mother. Mother-in-law will turn against daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.”
Then some soldiers asked him,
“This is the same Moses the two men of Israel would not accept. They had said, ‘Who made you ruler and judge?’ But God himself sent Moses to rule the people of Israel and set them free. He spoke to Moses through an angel. The angel had appeared to him in the bush.
Honor your father and mother.’  And ‘love your neighbor as you love yourself.’ ”
The Yeast of the Pharisees and Herod
If the whole body were an ear, how could it smell?
Then I will find out how those proud people are talking I will also find out what power they have
Turn away from this evil sin of yours Pray to the Lord
You have judged and murdered people who aren’t guilty.
under your control.” ’
The beast was allowed to use its authority for  months.
And God is able to shower all kinds of blessings on you So in all things and at all times you will have everything you need You will do more and more good works
Teacher when you say things like that you say bad things about us too
Jesus Heals Sick People
Children of God are not born because of human choice or because a husband wants them to be born
“Come!”
He will also announce my name to the people of Israel.
Suppose someone did not obey the law of Moses And suppose two or three witnesses made charges against them That person would die without mercy
“Then what should we do?” the crowd asked.
Right away he began to preach in the synagogues. He taught that Jesus is the Son of God.
The first creature looked like a lion
But when I had eaten it, it became sour in my stomach.
A huge cloud of witnesses is all around us. So let us throw off everything that stands in our way. Let us throw off any sin that holds on to us so tightly. And let us keep on running the race marked out for us.
if our hearts do not judge us,
and go home Then he will call his friends and neighbors together He will say Be joyful with me I have found my lost sheep
He commanded me not to preach with wisdom and fancy wordsThat would take all the power away from the cross of Christ
Also the complaints of the inhabitants claim that First Government did not reduce the price and second pure grain was not offered።
But some of them wouldnt listen They refused to believe In public they said evil things about the Way of Jesus So Paul left them
And they are trying to kill me.”
May God our Father give you grace and peace
This happened so that the words Jesus had spoken would come true. He had said, “I have not lost anyone God has given me.”
But because of Gods grace I am what I am
After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them. We will be taken up in the clouds.
But what about someone who says in front of others that he doesn’t know me? I, the Son of Man, will say in front of God’s angels that I don’t know him.
Every valley will be filled in.
“First let the children eat all they want,” he told her. “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”
Let the evil person continue to be evil
Ill say to myself
they saw him walking on the lake. They thought he was a ghost, so they cried out.
It is wonderful in our eyes
He also talked about the time when God will judge everyone. Then Felix became afraid.
It is an evil thing that never rests. It is full of deadly poison.
What I’m about to tell you is true. A time is coming for me to give life. In fact, it has already begun.
Not everyone in the family line of Israel really belongs to Israel.
None of the rulers of this world understood God’s wisdom. If they had, they would not have nailed the Lord of glory to the cross.
Brothers and sisters, think about the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. They are an example of how to be patient when you suffer.
I turned around to see who was speaking to me When I turned I saw seven golden lampstands
Late in the afternoon the twelve disciples came to him They said Send the crowd away
evil things people do They are so evil that they say no to the truth
You will tell his people how they can be saved.You will tell them that their sins can be forgiven.
Then I will know that you remain strong together in the one Spirit
I destroy every claim and every reason that keeps people from knowing God I keep every thought under control in order to make it obey Christ
When they heard this, they became very angry.
In Damascus the governor who served under King Aretas had their city guarded He wanted to arrest me
It was Preparation Day The next day would be a special Sabbath day
Do you really think you need to take sides You probably think God favors one side over the other
What if he put up with them to show the riches of his glory to other people Those other people are the ones he shows his mercy to He made them to receive his glory
His disciples answered him. “There is nothing here,” they said. “Where could we get enough bread to feed this large crowd?”
Do you want proof that faith without good deeds is useless
Sometimes people spoke badly about you in front of others
There were many lamps in the room upstairs where we were meeting.
That is why I was sent
They were amazed and bewildered. They asked one another, “What does this mean?”
Anyone Who Is Not Against Us Is for Us
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem. I went there to get to know Peter.
the Spirit prays for Gods people just as God wants him to pray
They did this so that after death they would be raised to an even better life
God has saved us from deadly dangers. And he will continue to do it. We have put our hope in him. He will continue to save us.
He didnt say this because he cared about the poor He said it because he was a thief
The emperor Claudius had ordered all Jews to leave Rome.
No! In all these things we are more than winners! We owe it all to Christ, who has loved us.
You believe in God.
But they couldn’t find them. So they dragged Jason and some other believers to the city officials. “These men have caused trouble all over the world,” they shouted. “Now they have come here.
The king is familiar with these things. So I can speak openly to him. I am certain he knows everything that has been going on. After all, it was not done in secret.
You know the grace shown by our Lord Jesus Christ Even though he was rich he became poor to help you Because he became poor you can become rich
Peter answered him, “We have left everything to follow you! What reward will be given to us?”
Jesus left the synagogue and went to the home of Simon.
Will he go where our people live scattered among the Greeks? Will he go there to teach the Greeks?
If anyone is weak, I feel weak. If anyone is led into sin, I burn on the inside.
Peter Again Says He Is Not Jesus’ Disciple
What I’m about to tell you is true. What she has done will be told anywhere the good news is preached all over the world. It will be told in memory of her.”
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High God.
You have received the Spirit from the Holy One
Be at peace with God.
Jesus had not yet entered the village He was still at the place where Martha had met him
Then a voice told him, “Get up, Peter. Kill and eat.”
A few days later Jesus entered Capernaum again The people heard that he had come home
Timothy works together with me. He sends his greetings to you. So do Lucius, Jason and Sosipater, my fellow Jews.
Then Jesus left the people and went out of the city to Bethany. He spent the night there.
But there is one who brings glory to me.
Then there came flashes of lightning, rumblings, thunder and a powerful earthquake. There has never been an earthquake as terrible as this. One like this hasn’t happened while human beings have lived on earth.
Then others will not know that you are fasting Only your Father who cant be seen will know it Your Father will reward you because he sees what you do secretly
So let us not be like the others They are asleep Instead let us be wide awake and in full control of ourselves
And by doing these things remain in Gods love as you wait You are waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you eternal life
The Lord will soon come back
All of them ate and were satisfied After that the disciples picked up seven baskets of leftover pieces
I tell you, now is the time God has mercy. Now is the day he saves.
Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but can’t kill the soul. Instead, be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
And what about my enemies who did not want me to be king over them? Bring them here! Kill them in front of me!’ ”
God promised that those people would never enjoy the rest he planned for them.
Brothers and sisters here is a mystery I want you to understand It will keep you from being proud Part of Israel has refused to obey God That will continue until the full number of Gentiles has entered Gods kingdom
“What will the owner of the vineyard do then? He will come and kill those renters. He will give the vineyard to others.
Their chests were covered with something that looked like armor made out of iron
When he said this he meant the Holy Spirit Those who believed in Jesus would receive the Spirit later Up to that time the Spirit had not been given This was because Jesus had not yet received glory
At last you are concerned about me again. That makes me very happy. We belong to the Lord. I know that you were concerned. But you had no chance to show it.
I am an electrician.
I have come in my Father’s name,
He was not an ordinary child.
But I will punish the nation that makes them slaves,’ God said.
They lay their crowns in front of the throne.
The husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the church. The church is Christ’s body. He is its Savior.
That’s the reason I sent someone to find out about your faith. I couldn’t wait any longer. I was afraid that Satan had tempted you in some way. Then our work among you would have been useless.
Be humble.
My sheep listen to my voice
Bless them and do not curse them
“No one lights a lamp and hides it. No one puts it under a bowl.Instead, they put a lamp on its stand.
Let me in.
Suppose I build again what I had destroyed. Then I would really be breaking the law.
Moses said, ‘Honor your father and mother.’  He also said, ‘Anyone who asks for bad things to happen to their father or mother must be put to death.’
You have received the Spirit from the Holy One.
I received help from other churches so I could serve you. This was almost like robbing them.
The great dragon was thrown down to the earth and his angels with him
“I tell you,” he said, “get up. Take your mat and go home.”
Christ died for our sins, just as Scripture said he would.
She said He told me everything Ive ever done Many of the Samaritans from the town of Sychar believed in Jesus
I won’t be fooled.
Think how great Melchizedek was! Even our father Abraham gave him a tenth of what he had captured.
Three Hallelujahs for the Fall of Babylon
We know that Christ was raised from the dead and will never die again
Jesus said, “My food is to do what my Father sent me to do.
Who can know the thoughts of another person? Only a person’s own spirit can know them. In the same way, only the Spirit of God knows God’s thoughts.
It is true that I worship the God of our people. I am a follower of the Way of Jesus. Those bringing charges against me call it a cult. I believe everything that is in keeping with the Law. I believe everything that is in keeping with what is written in the Prophets.
Always give thanks to God the Father for everything Give thanks to him in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ
So are people whose lives are impure.
So they kept the matter to themselves But they asked each other what rising from the dead meant
What should we say then? Should we sin because we are not ruled by the law but by God’s grace? Not at all!
Man did not come from woman. Woman came from man.
‘The Lord gave them bread from heaven to eat.’ ”
Greet those who live in the house of Aristobulus
Johns disciples heard about this So they came and took his body Then they placed it in a tomb
That doesnt have any value It only destroys those who listen
The next night the Lord stood near Paul He said Be brave You have told people about me in Jerusalem You must do the same in Rome
Stretch out your hand to heal. Do signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus.”
So the people did not agree about who Jesus was. Some wanted to arrest him. But no one laid a hand on him.
Im ill
If any of these things has happened to you, then agree with one another. Have the same love. Be one in spirit and in the way you think and act. By doing this, you will make my joy complete.
Then you can help me on my journey everywhere I go.
The spirit screamed. It shook the boy wildly. Then it came out of him. The boy looked so lifeless that many people said, “He’s dead.”
It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day. Why are you doing it?
So he became higher than the angels. The name he received is more excellent than theirs.
Suppose you keep the whole law but trip over just one part of it.
But their hearts are far away from me.
He was very sick
But you yourself broke the law when you commanded them to hit me
We are also sending another one of our brothers with them He has often proved to us in many ways that he is very committed
All this time, have you been thinking that I’ve been speaking up for myself?
God did this so that people would seek him And perhaps they would reach out for him and find him
“This must be the Prophet who is supposed to come into the world.
Then Jesus left the people and went out of the city to Bethany He spent the night there
We are the temple of the living God God has said
The disciple who had reached the tomb first also went inside He saw and believed
Pay her back double for what she has done.
Jesus saw his mother there. He also saw the disciple he loved standing nearby. Jesus said to his mother, “Dear woman, here is your son.”
he remains faithfulHe must be true to himself
I shave every morning.
You are worthy because you were put to death.
Are you so foolish You began by the Holy Spirit Are you now trying to finish Gods work in you by your own strength
Suppose you had , believers in Christ watching over you. You still wouldn’t have many fathers. I became your father by serving Christ Jesus and telling you the good news.
His master thought highly of him
He chose tewelve of them and made them apostles Here are their names
Brothers and sisters I dont consider that I have taken hold of it yet
God is able to do far more than we could ever ask for or imagine. He does everything by his power that is working in us.
Obed was the son of Boaz
Then how will we escape if we don’t pay attention to God’s great salvation?
You are certainly giving thanks
“Lord,” Peter asked, “Why can’t I follow you now? I will give my life for you.”
When the Jews saw the crowds they became very jealous
Animals have another
There were some Greeks among the people who went up to worship during the feast.
Continuing on from Tyre we landed at Ptolemais
They tried to take him into the house to place him in front of Jesus.
God’s whole nature is living in Christ in human form.
Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
He wants me to set free those who are treated badly.
But Jesus ordered them not to tell people about him
Dear friend, don’t be like those who do evil.
In this way all Israel will be saved It is written
Jesus said You believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree You will see greater things than that
I will pour out my Holy Spirit on all people.
We are no better if we do eat
Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. But anyone who speaks evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
The great dragon was thrown down to the earth and his angels with him The dragon is that old serpent called the devil or Satan He leads the whole world astray
Are they serving Christ? I am serving him even more. I’m out of my mind to talk like this! I have worked much harder. I have been in prison more often. I have suffered terrible beatings. Again and again I almost died.
They havent said evil things against our female god But you have brought them here anyhow
“Teacher,” they said, “here is what Moses told us. If a man dies without having children, his brother must get married to the widow. He must provide children to carry on his brother’s name.
These are the things you should teach
He will go out to cause the nations to believe lies. He will gather them from the four corners of the earth. He will bring Gog and Magog together for battle. Their troops are as many as the grains of sand on the seashore.
And he turned over their tables.
“Legion,” he replied,
Then he carried me away in a vision. The Spirit took me to a huge, high mountain.
Praise God for His Spiritual Blessings in Christ
If you really know me, you will know my Father also. From now on, you do know him. And you have seen him.”
Because I was sure of this I wanted to visit you first Here is how I thought you would be helped twice
The lake of fire is the second death
First Christ said, “You didn’t want sacrifices and offerings. You didn’t want burnt offerings and sin offerings. You weren’t pleased with them.” He said this even though they were offered in keeping with the law.
Mattatha was the son of Nathan.
Remember the story of Moses and the burning bush. Even Moses showed that the dead rise. The Lord said to him, ‘I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.’
He suffered shame because of Christ He thought it had great value Moses considered it better than the riches of Egypt He was looking ahead to his reward
You who want to be under the authority of the law tell me something Dont you know what the law says
Then he said, “Here I am. I have come to do what you want.”
I will take away their sins
Some of you used to do those things. But your sins were washed away. You were made holy. You were made right with God. All of this was done in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was also done by the Spirit of our God.
“Long ago our people were in the desert. They had with them the holy tent. The tent was where the tablets of the covenant law were kept. Moses had made the holy tent as God had commanded him. Moses made it like the pattern he had seen.
Then Jesus said to Simon, “Don’t be afraid. From now on you will fish for people.”
“Come,” he replied. “You will see.”
Jesus left there and went to his hometown of Nazareth. His disciples went with him.
His neighbors and people who had seen him earlier begging asked questions. “Isn’t this the same man who used to sit and beg?” they asked.
People who dont know better and arent firm in the faith twist what he says
You are the branches
I have come into the world to be its light So no one who believes in me will stay in darkness
Then what have I gotten for it?
He saw Jesus walking by John said Look The Lamb of God
This was to make what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah come true. It says,
So remain strong in the faith Put the belt of truth around your waist Put the armor of godliness on your chest
I bought her a watch
There were many priests in Levis family line Death kept them from continuing in office
He digs down deep and sets it on solid rock.
But Herod said, “I had John’s head cut off.
Many Gentiles who faithfully worshiped the God of the Jews did the same. Paul and Barnabas talked with them. They tried to get them to keep living in God’s grace.
My dear friends, don’t try to get even. Leave room for God to show his anger.
That will keep you out of trouble.”
Brothers and sisters, be patient until the Lord comes. See how the farmer waits for the land to produce its rich crop. See how patient the farmer is for the fall and spring rains.
And Abraham is also the father of those who are circumcised and believe.
You have made yourselves pure by obeying the truth.
Then people will not speak evil things against Gods name and against what we teach
He was circumcised as a sign of the covenant God had made with him. It showed that his faith had made him right with God before he was circumcised.
What do you want to tell me the officer asked
When you were baptized you were buried together with Christ And you were raised to life together with him when you were baptized You were raised to life by believing in Gods work God himself raised Jesus from the dead
I hope I can see you soon Then we can talk face to face
And in that place many believed in Jesus
Those who cited it as a reason also stated that it would be easier to say that what is sold on the market and what the government is selling is equal to what it is offering።
The one with the two bags of gold earned two more.
Every day they went to the temple, praising God.
His concerns pull him in two directions.
But if you break the law it is just as if you hadnt been circumcised
“When he went up to his place on high,
You have been faithful and have put up with a lot of trouble because of me You have not given up
People who dont believe might say you are doing wrong But lead good lives among them Then they will see your good deeds And they will give glory to God on the day he comes to judge
You have been blessed in every way because of him. You have been blessed in all your speech and knowledge.
They take over the houses of widows They say long prayers to show off God will punish these men very much
You had Jesus killed by nailing him to a cross But the God of our people raised Jesus from the dead
Think how great Melchizedek was Even our father Abraham gave him a tenth of what he had captured
May more and more mercy,
So I say live by the Holy Spirits power
Every mountain and island was moved out of its place
The angel said, “There will be no more waiting!
He stood at the center of the area around the throne.
So suppose you know something is good Then dont let it be spoken of as if it were evil
James son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot and Judas son of James
So he went to her He took her hand and helped her up The fever left her Then she began to serve them
He was an evil magician and a false prophet
So if David calls him Lord how can he be Davids son
Husband how do you know if you will save your wife
She was a worshiper of God
That’s the way you lived at one time in your life.
It is wonderful in our eyes
God will give eternal life to those who keep on doing good. They want glory, honor, and life that never ends.
All these evil things come from inside a person and make them unclean
My friends listen to me
I tell you that something more important than the temple is here.
Leave the Pharisees. They are blind guides. If one blind person leads another blind person, both of them will fall into a pit.”
For your benefit, I am glad I was not there. Now you will believe. But let us go to him.”
Then he began to teach them.
A group of Epicurean and Stoic thinkers began to argue with him. Some of them asked, “What is this fellow chattering about?” Others said, “He seems to be telling us about gods we’ve never heard of.” They said this because Paul was preaching the good news about Jesus. He was telling them that Jesus had risen from the dead.
I, Paul, am an old man. I am now also a prisoner because of Christ Jesus.
Here is the judgment Light has come into the world
A person is not a Jew if they are a Jew only on the outside And circumcision is more than just something done to the outside of a mans body
Mary saidMy soul gives glory to the Lord
They must not say things that harm others
Again here is what I ask The Israelites didnt trip and fall once and for all time did them Not at all Because Israel sinned the Gentiles can be saved That will make Israel jealous of them
But each one of us has received a gift of grace. These gifts are given to us by Christ.
Look at the big letters I’m using as I write to you with my own hand!
They shouldnt show their masters disrespect just because they are also believers
Sometimes their thoughts find them guilty.
He trims every branch that does bear fruit. Then it will bear even more fruit.
They went through it as if it were dry land. The Egyptians tried to do it also. But they drowned.
most of you shouldn’t become teachers.
We were also very glad to see how happy Titus was
Right away he took some officers and soldiers with him. They ran down to the crowd. The people causing the trouble saw the commander and his soldiers. So they stopped beating Paul.
Jesus no longer moved around openly among the people of Judea. Instead, he went away to an area near the desert. He went to a village called Ephraim. There he stayed with his disciples.
You are the children that God dearly loves. So follow his example.
Then those in the boat worshiped Jesus. They said, “You really are the Son of God!”
three on the north.
What John Says About Jesus
Theophilus I wrote about Jesus in my earlier book I wrote about all he did and taught
Blessed are those who have not seen me but still have believed.”
And I want you to have nothing to do with what is evil
Dear friends,
Jesus said Then I wont tell you by what authority I am doing these things either
As a result Liang Shi was unable to solve the test።
Is it possible that no one among you is wise enough to judge matters between believers?
Two other men were also led out with Jesus to be killed Both of them had broken the law
He saved Joseph from all his troubles. God made Joseph wise. He helped him to become the friend of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. So Pharaoh made Joseph ruler over Egypt and his whole palace.
Instead praise God because you are known by the name of Christ
John replied, “A person can receive only what God gives them from heaven.
So show them that you really love them Show them why we are proud of you Then the churches can see it
He approached Bethphage and Bethany. The hill there was called the Mount of Olives. Jesus sent out two of his disciples. He said to them,
But all its many parts make up one body.
This is the disciple who is a witness about these things. He also wrote them down. We know that what he says is true.
“At that time Moses was born. He was not an ordinary child. For three months he was taken care of by his family.
And all the people listened to him, from the least important of them to the most important. They exclaimed, “It is right to call this man the Great Power of God!”
Instead he receives it when he is appointed by God That is just how it was for Aaron
Am I not telling the truth? Then why don’t you believe me?
Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus glory and spoke about him
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace
“Moses was faithful as one who serves in the house of God.” He was a witness to what God would say in days to come.
No one who keeps on sinning has seen him or known him
That’s because they worshiped the Lord and the Holy Spirit helped them.
Keep an eye on anyone who doesn’t obey the teachings in our letter.
So I will be very happy to spend everything I have for you.
That is how everyone reached land safely.
“What I’m about to tell you is true. What you lock on earth will be locked in heaven. What you unlock on earth will be unlocked in heaven.
Jesus replied Blessed are you Simon son of Jonah No mere human showed this to you My Father in heaven showed it to you
After all no one ever hated their own body Instead they feed and care for their body And this is what Christ does for the church
He gave them the ability to do signs and wonders.
He stood at the center of the area around the throne
But they couldnt find them So they dragged Jason and some other believers to the city officials These men have caused trouble all over the world they shouted Now they have come here
I am the least important of the apostles. I’m not even fit to be called an apostle.
So then, the man who marries the virgin does the right thing.
He said, ‘Cornelius, God has heard your prayer.
“Then he said, ‘The God of our people has chosen you.
Jesus Family Returns to Nazareth
All the people in town gathered at the door.
The chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things he did They also saw the children in the temple courtyard shouting Hosanna to the Son of David But when they saw all this they became angry
Outside are those who worship statues of gods.
So you became a model to all the believers in the lands of Macedonia and Achaia.
They were supposed to harm only the people without Gods official seal on their foreheads
I come from England
Suppose someone stays away from what is common Then the Master will be able to use them for special purposes They will be made holy They will be ready to do any good work
The person who says no to the Son doesn’t belong to the Father.
But the man wanted to make himself look good.
Follow my example just as I follow the example of Christ
Dont be like Cain He belonged to the evil one He murdered his brother
These will lead people astray
There will be trouble for anyone who has its mark on their forehead or their hand
All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden in him.
You will weep and mourn while the world is full of joy
Do Not Take Believers to Court
You foolish people!
But we love each other. And I would rather appeal to you on the basis of that love.
But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”
But some have died
Is there any advantage in being a Jew?
But you are looking for a way to kill me You have no room for my word
In fact the water I give them will become a spring of water in them It will flow up into eternal life
But they shouted Take him away Take him away Crucify him
They should wear clothes that are right and proper
She obeyed Abraham She called him her master
Then he said to her, “Dear woman, your faith has healed you. Go in peace.”
The merchants will say
Well then, you should have put my money in the bank. When I returned, I would have received it back with interest.’
The first terrible judgment is past. Two others are still coming.
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit Amen
Jesus answered, “I did tell you. But you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name are a witness for me.
If they do that they will be judged They have broken their first promise
The Story of the Pharisee and the Tax Collector
They began to bring charges against Jesus They said We have found this man misleading our people He is against paying taxes to Caesar And he claims to be Messiah a king
The same Lord is Lord of all.
We want you to be patient. We pray that you will never give up.
Next were Philip and Bartholomewand also Thomas and Matthew the tax collectorTwo more were James son of Alphaeus and Thaddaeus
If you did, you would have asked him. He would have given you living water.”
Obey Those in Authority
More than three hudred  billons of offense were lost ።
I was moving ahead in my Jewish way of life. I went beyond many of my people who were my own age.
You must listen to everything he tells you.
Again the Pharisees called the man who had been blind to come to them
Leave these men alone Let them go
I call God to be my witness May he take my life if Im lying I wanted to spare you so I didnt return to Corinth
I can start anytime.
In the same way consider you to be dead as far as sin is concerned
In a race all the runners run. But only one gets the prize. You know that, don’t you? So run in a way that will get you the prize.
Only let us live up to what we have already reached.
One day Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee. There he saw Simon and his brother Andrew. They were throwing a net into the lake. They were fishermen.
When the demon was driven out the man spoke The crowd was amazed They said Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel
To those under the law I became like one who was under the law. I did this even though I myself am not under the law. That was to win those under the law.
Be careful to do what everyone thinks is right.
“The Lord who rules over all
Proper Worship
God himself will be with them and be their God.
The star was given the key to the tunnel leading down into a bottomless pit
What Im about to tell you is true The master will put that servant in charge of everything he owns
By being baptized, we have been joined with him in a death like his. So we will certainly also be joined with him in a resurrection like his.
At one time you didnt know God You were slaves to gods that are really not gods at all
Christ has set us free to enjoy our freedom.
“ ‘The Lord said to my Lord,
His disciples answered him There is nothing here they said Where can anyone get enough bread to feed them
They claimed to be wise. But they made fools of themselves.
Dont try to stop what the Holy Spirit is doing
The body is meant for the Lord. And the Lord is meant for the body.
But what does it matter?
Then another slave came He said Sir here is your money I have kept it hidden in a piece of cloth
Yes and the Father will show the Son even greater works than these. And you will be amazed.
How terrible it will be for you Chorazin
Then the Pharisees replied When you were born you were already deep in sin
When Pilate heard that, he brought Jesus out. Pilate sat down on the judge’s seat. It was at a place called the Stone Walkway. In the Aramaic language it was called Gabbatha.
He will be destroyed
We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him
That’s an example for the present time.
Now Lord consider the bad things they say they are going to do
He replied Go into the city to a certain man Tell him The Teacher says My time is near I am going to celebrate the Passover at your house with my disciples
Caiaphas had advised the Jewish leaders that it would be good if one man died for the people
I will continue to show you to them. Then the love you have for me will be in them.
Everyone who has will be given more They will have more than enough And what about anyone who doesnt have Even what they have will be taken away from them
She never left the temple. She worshiped night and day, praying and going without food.
God has saved us. He has chosen us to live a holy life. It wasn’t because of anything we have done. It was because of his own purpose and grace. Through Christ Jesus, God gave us this grace even before time began.
Because of his faith he made his home in the land God had promised him. Abraham was like an outsider in a strange country.
Paul and his companions traveled all through the area of Phrygia and Galatia
We agree with the law
But not everyone knows this. Some people still think that statues of gods are real gods. They might eat food sacrificed to statues of gods. When they do, they think of it as food sacrificed to real gods. And because those people have a weak sense of what is right and wrong, they feel guilty.
Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood remains in me.
“Think carefully about what you hear,” he said. “As you give, so you will receive. In fact, you will receive even more.
He was waiting for Gods promise to Israel to come true The Holy Spirit was with him
The judges ordered that Paul and Silas be stripped and beaten with rods.
Guard the truth of the good news that you were trusted with. Guard it with the help of the Holy Spirit who lives in us.
Be glad all you who live there
So turn away from your sins If you dont I will come to you soon I will fight against those people with the sword that comes out of my mouth
Cosam was the son of Elmadam.
Turn away from your sins
Jesus Is Asked About Fasting
Pray for us. We feel sure we have done what is right. We desire to live as we should in every way.
Some of you are trying to be made right with God by obeying the law. You have been separated from Christ. You have fallen away from God’s grace.
Everyone tried to touch Jesus. Power was coming from him and healing them all.
Give to everyone who asks you.
The dragon stood on the seashore
With their tongues they tell lies.”
He saved Joseph from all his troubles. God made Joseph wise.
Thats because Adam was made first Then Eve was made
Paul replied, “Brothers, I didn’t realize he was the high priest.
I know what you are doing You work long and hard I know you cant put up with evil people You have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not You have found out that they are liars
How can Christ and Satan agrees? Or what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever?
That was what I had wanted to do all along
We are seeking to be made right with God through Christ As we do what if we find that we who are Jews are also sinners Does that mean that Christ causes us to sin Certainly not
The private parts aren’t shown. But they are treated with special care.
They see that the things you do are right.”
I leave my peace with you. I give my peace to you. I do not give it to you as the world does. Do not let your hearts be troubled. And do not be afraid.
The fact is you have had five husbands
They have suffered a great deal. But in their suffering, their joy was more than full.
Again he said he was not
Matthat was the son of Levi
Because of this, one person stays hungry and another gets drunk.
They answered him, “We are Abraham’s children. We have never been slaves of anyone. So how can you say that we will be set free?”
Whoever does not accept you does not accept me.
Moses said Honor your father and mother  He also said Anyone who asks for bad things to happen to their father or mother must be put to death
Here are the words of the Son of God. He is Jesus, whose eyes are like blazing fire. His feet are like polished bronze. He says,
There were too many fish in it
They said the Messiah would suffer. He would be the first to rise from the dead. He would bring the message of God’s light. He would bring it to his own people and to the Gentiles.”
How terrible! How terrible it is for you, great city!
They are weaker than you. So treat them with respect.
Jesus Final Orders to His Disciples
The kings of the world will bring their glory into it.
The seed on the path stands for God’s message in the hearts of those who hear. But then the devil comes. He takes away the message from their hearts. He does it so they won’t believe. Then they can’t be saved.
That’s because I hear about your love for all God’s people.
The Lord God will give them light
Then Nicodemus, a Pharisee, spoke. He was the one who had gone to Jesus earlier.
After this we started on our way to Jerusalem
You were taught not to live the way you used to You must get rid of your old way of life Thats because it has been made impure by the desire for things that lead you astray
Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God have come
I dont feel I have done anything wrong
He will go out to cause the nations to believe lies He will gather them from the four corners of the earth He will bring Gog and Magog together for battle
The Story of the Clever Manager
He said, “Here is a boy with five small loaves of barley bread. He also has two small fish. But how far will that go in such a large crowd?”
First Moses says
Gods Spirit teaches you about everything
Paul’s Trial in Front of Festus
Moses shook with fear
At that time his voice shook the earth. But now he has promised, “Once more I will shake the earth. I will also shake the heavens.”
To those who are weak I became weak. That was to win the weak. I have become all things to all people.
Then they began to look for him among their relatives and friends.
Thats how we should live as we wait for the blessed hope God has given us
So don’t live under the control of sin. If you do, you will think about what sin wants. Live under the control of the Holy Spirit. If you do, you will think about what the Spirit wants.
Then everyone who believes may have eternal life in him.”
Dont favor one person over another
But they went out and spread the news. They talked about him all over that area.
Before I knew about the law, I was alive. But then the commandment came. Sin came to life, and I died.
Show proper respect to everyone.
Suppose you, with all your knowledge, are eating in a temple of one of those gods. And suppose someone who has a weak sense of what is right and wrong sees you.
So the chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus too.
Gods Children and Sin
People were eating and drinking They were getting married They were giving their daughters to be married They did all those things right up to the day Noah entered the ark Then the flood came and destroyed them all
I’m sureI will be brave enough. Now as always Christ will receive glory because of what happens to me. He will receive glory whether I live or die.
In , something came to haunt the young man's dreams in the fiscal calendar።
Here is a saying that you can trust
But where sin increased, God’s grace increased even more.
The people went out to see what had happened. Then they came to Jesus. They found the man who was now free of the demons.
Because of his faith he was considered right with God.
In fact thats what you are doing
When they found him they tried to keep him from leaving them
Then you will remain joined to the Son and to the Father.
It is time for the Lamb’s wedding.
The Storm
Your brother has come home the servant replied Your father has killed the fattest calf He has done this because your brother is back safe and sound
Here is the important thing. Whether for right or wrong reasons, Christ is being preached about.
Church Leaders Meet in Jerusalem
Anyone who does not believe in the Son will not have life. God’s anger remains on them.”
We know the God who said I am the God who judges people
We are waiting for Jesus Christ to appear in his glory He is our great God and Savior
Amen.
But Paul and Barnabas found out about the plan. They escaped to the Lycaonian cities of Lystra and Derbe and to the surrounding area.
But someone may consider a thing to be unclean If they do it is unclean for them
They trap those who are not firm in their faith They have mastered the art of getting what they want
Suppose I go on living in my body Then I will be able to carry on my work
Where two or three people gather in my name I am there with them
Be on your guard Remain strong in the faith Be brave
Besides they get into the habit of having nothing to do They go around from house to house They waste their time They also bother other people and say things that make no sense They shouldnt say those things
The back of the ship was broken to pieces by the pounding of the waves.
If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? No. People who wear fine clothes are in kings’ palaces.
Their beauty is destroyed.
The result of sins control in our lives is clear It includes sexual sins impure acts and wild living
The written Law kills, but the Spirit gives life.
Crescens has gone to Galatia
When he came he went through the greater and more perfect holy tent
Jesus did not let him. He said, “Go home to your own people. Tell them how much the Lord has done for you. Tell them how kind he has been to you.”
Even if my letter made you sad Im not sorry I sent it
Now I live my life in my body by faith in the Son of God.He loved me and gave himself for me.
Bring the fattest calf and kill it Lets have a feast and celebrate
Most of all, here is what you must understand.
At that time Herod the ruler of Galilee and Perea heard reports about Jesus
Be joyful and glad. Your reward in heaven is great. In the same way, people hurt the prophets who lived long ago.
Your wanting more and more will eat your body like fire
Tell them to try to please their masters
The light was seen by my companions. But they didn’t understand the voice of the one speaking to me.
Think about the people of Israel Dont those who eat the offerings share in the altar
If I said I did not
When you enter a town or village, look for someone who is willing to welcome you. Stay at their house until you leave.
But the crowds learned about it and followed Jesus. He welcomed them and spoke to them about God’s kingdom. He also healed those who needed to be healed.
Isaac had faith. So he blessed Jacob and Esau. He told them what was ahead for them.
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it.
I wanted to know that I had not been running my race for any purpose
Others plant to please the Holy Spirit. From the Spirit they will harvest eternal life.
Then they spit in his face. They hit him with their fists. Others slapped him.
The Cost of Following Jesus
But John tried to stop him So he told Jesus I need to be baptized by you So why do you come to me
So put on all of God’s armor. Evil days will come. But you will be able to stand up to anything.
The believers asked the Lord to give his grace to Paul and Silas as they went
But God wants to make it clear to Israel who this person is. That’s the reason I came baptizing with water.”
At Troas we got into a boat We sailed straight for Samothrace
Keep on remembering those in prison Do this as if you were together with them in prison And remember those who are treated badly as if you yourselves were suffering
Then she turned around and saw Jesus standing there.
You are fair when you judge me
I dont live any longer
The childs father and mother were amazed at what was said about him
So he got into the boat and left.
About that time she became sick and died
Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood has eternal life
It does many things of that kind.
She was gleaming with gold, jewels and pearls.
They invited us to spend a week with them
We were full of evil We wanted what belongs to others People hated us and we hated one another
Peter said, “Explain this to us.”
Or is God the God of Jews only
And he could see again.
So he chose two of them.
He must manage his own family well. He must make sure that his children obey him. And he must do this in a way that gains him respect.
Each person should test their own actions
Then one of the elders spoke to me.
Seven sons of Sceva were doing this Sceva was a Jewish chief priest
They too will drink the wine of Gods great anger His wine has been poured full strength into the cup of his anger
And they were afraid to ask Jesus about it
Then the man of sin will appear
Then they said Why do we need any more witnesses We have heard it from his own lips
Paul and Silas Are Sent to Berea
Lofe Lofe Le Wag Youth is a moment of freedom for men ።
He is the only one you should serve.’ ”
The next day we left and arrived at Caesarea
Paul prayed for him He placed his hands on him and healed him
The kingdom of heaven belongs to them
Elijah was a human being just as we are He prayed hard that it wouldnt rain And it didnt rain on the land for three and a half years
The angel who talked with me had a gold measuring rod. He used it to measure the city, its gates and its walls.
So they tied him up and led him away. Then they handed him over to Pilate, who was the governor.
Show mercies to those who doubt
There is great value in every way
you will die in your sin
God is my witness that I long for all of you. I love you with the love that Christ Jesus gives.
Jesus Sends Out the Twelve Disciples
Nahum was the son of Esli.
But my life means nothing to me My only goal is to finish the race I want to complete the work the Lord Jesus has given me
The coming of the man of sin will fit how Satan works.
“Then you will say, ‘We ate and drank with you. You taught in our streets.’
Another was Joanna, the wife of Chuza. He was the manager of Herod’s household.
On the gates were written the names of the tewelve tribes of Israel
Some of you say Food is for the stomach and the stomach is for food
It was alive first in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice
I don't like winter.
Noah had faith. So he built an ark to save his family. He built it because of his great respect for God. God had warned him about things that could not yet be seen. Because of his faith Noah showed the world that it was guilty. Because of his faith he was considered right with God.
Then the angel spoke to me
He said, “Give me this power too. Then everyone I place my hands on will receive the Holy Spirit.”
I met your girlfriend.
Now the Lord is the Holy Spirit. And where the Spirit of the Lord is, freedom is also there.
But since sexual sin is happening, each man should sleep with his own wife.
In those days people will look for a way to die but wont find it They will want to die but death will escape them
He was holding a little scroll It was lying open in his hand
But he has lifted up people who are not considered important.
They walked the length of one street
They will come true at the time God has chosen.”
But Judas Iscariot didn’t like what Mary did. He was one of Jesus’ disciples. Later he was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
But the gate is small and the road is narrow that leads to life Only a few people find it
In Joppa there was a believer named Tabitha. Her name in the Greek language is Dorcas. She was always doing good and helping poor people.
I haven’t done anything wrong to the Jews. You yourself know that very well.
No we announce Gods wisdom His wisdom is a mystery that has been hidden
I dont believe that
Jesus knew all about the Pharisees’ plans. So he left that place. A large crowd followed him, and he healed all who were sick.
I try
We work hard with our own hands. When others curse us, we bless them. When we are attacked, we put up with it.
Anyone who is not against us is for us
The high priest questioned them.
I fast twice a week. And I give a tenth of all I get.’
Now then, when the dead rise, whose wife will she be? All seven of them were married to her.”
The power of the horses was in their mouths and in their tails. The tails were like snakes whose heads could bite.
The Soldiers Make Fun of Jesus
They put it down at the apostles feet
But Peter would not give in. He said, “I may have to die with you. But I will never say I don’t know you.” And all the others said the same thing.
The word of the Lord spread through the whole area.
Im talking about the way you serve because you believe
But I will also sing with my understanding
That is what I say to stand up for myself when people judge me.
And Saul had agreed with the Sanhedrin that Stephen should die.
Look The Lord is coming with thousands and thousands of his holy ones
Fill it up
Our work is in danger of losing its good name Peoples faith in the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be weakened Now she is worshiped all over Asia Minor and the whole world
Then they can take pride in themselves. They won’t be comparing themselves to someone else.
Jesus and his disciples were leaving Jericho. A large crowd followed him.
It is written
A crowd was sitting around Jesus They told him Your mother and your brothers are outside They are looking for you
I care very little if I am judged by you or by any human court I dont even judge myself
All by itself the soil produces grain First the stalk comes up Then the head appears Finally the full grain appears in the head
I do not let women teach or take authority over a man They must be quiet
Jesus called together the twelve disciples. He gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to heal sicknesses.
But a time is coming when I will speak clearly. Then I will tell you plainly about my Father.
But we are citizens of heaven And we can hardly wait for a Savior from there He is the Lord Jesus Christ
You belong to your father, the devil. You want to obey your father’s wishes. From the beginning, the devil was a murderer. He has never obeyed the truth. There is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his natural language. He does this because he is a liar. He is the father of lies.
I looked, and there in front of me was a white horse! Its rider held a bow in his hands. He was given a crown. He rode out like a hero on his way to victory.
But now God has shown us his saving power without the help of the law But the Law and the Prophets tell us about this
Paul and Barnabas Preach in Iconium
Bartholomew and Matthew
now you build the prophets’ tombs.
When people controlled by evil spirits saw him, they fell down in front of him. The spirits shouted, “You are the Son of God!”
His pitchfork is in his hand to clear the straw from his threshing floor. He will gather his wheat into the storeroom. But he will burn up the husks with fire that can’t be put out.”
The members of the church in Babylon send you their greetings They were chosen together with you Mark my son in the faith also sends you his greetings
He told those who were selling doves “Get these out of here!
Jesus left Galilee and went to the area of Tyre and Sidon.
I really wanted to write to you about the salvation we share
There we greeted the brothers and sisters
He told us how much you longed for me He told us about your deep sadness and concern for me
He was an educated man from Alexandria.
Not Circumcision but the New Creation
Jesus said this to point out how Peter would die. His death would bring glory to God. Then Jesus said to him, “Follow me!”
God’s Spirit teaches you about everything.
But Paul replied to the officers. “They beat us in public,” he said. “We weren’t given a trial. And we are Roman citizens! They threw us into prison. And now do they want to get rid of us quietly? No! Let them come themselves and personally lead us out.”
Suppose one of you wants to bring a charge against another believer. Should you take it to ungodly people to be judged? Why not take it to the Lord’s people?
But they are still in the world and I am coming to you
When Peter saw this he said Fellow Israelites why does this surprise you
I'll make you happy.
Those who belong to the earth are like the one who came from the earth
The sun will be darkened
Make your hearts pure,
They no longer followed him.
What dies will be dressed with what does not die.
As it is, I don’t understand you.
Jesus stood up and asked her, “Woman, where are they? Hasn’t anyone found you guilty?”
Jesus said What Im about to tell you is true You need to change and become like little children If you dont you will never enter the kingdom of heaven
They put out great fires.
Jesus saw them and said, “Go. Show yourselves to the priests.” While they were on the way, they were healed.
Blessed are those invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb
Now I beg you to be brave Not one of you will die Only the ship will be destroyed
Do you understand all these things Jesus asked
Many people will follow their lead. These people will do the same evil things the false teachers do. They will cause people to think badly about the way of truth.
But you are so strong!
How do you know me Nathanael asked
So you should try very hard to add goodness to your faith.
There is one body, but it has many parts. But all its many parts make up one body. It is the same with Christ.
Not at all!
I will walk among them.
They want to take you away from us
But one man did obey That is why many people will be made right with God
Ask the people who heard me.
So he got up from the meal and took off his outer clothes.
Doesn’t it say that he will come from Bethlehem, the town where David lived?”
The king became very angry. He sent his army to destroy them. They killed those murderers and burned their city.
You can tell each tree by its fruit Do people pick grapes from bushes Do they pick figs from thorns
Jesus continued speaking, “You have a fine way of setting aside God’s commands! You do this so you can follow your own teachings.
The whole moon turned as red as blood.
But we will all be changed
A very large crowd spread their coats on the road. Others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.
The Weak and the Strong
I cant find my pen
I will do away with the cleverness of those who think they are so smart.”
Then the Samaritans came to him and tried to get him to stay with them
The Sabbath day was now over. It was dawn on the first day of the week. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb.
We must all stand in front of Christ to be judged. Each one of us will be judged for what we do while in our bodies. We’ll be judged for the good things and the bad things. Then each of us will receive what we are supposed to get.
If that is how God dresses the wild grass, won’t he dress you even better? Your faith is so small! After all, the grass is here only today. Tomorrow it is thrown into the fire.
Peter motioned with his hand for them to be quiet. He explained how the Lord had brought him out of prison. “Tell James and the other brothers and sisters about this,” he said. Then he went to another place.
But the whole crowd shouted, “Kill this man! But let Barabbas go!”
The coming of the man of sin will fit how Satan works The man of sin will show his power through all kinds of signs and wonders These signs and wonders will lead people astray
Not everyone who says to me Lord Lord will enter the kingdom of heaven Only those who do what my Father in heaven wants will enter
I watched as the Lamb broke open the first of the seven seals
But he answered his father, ‘Look! All these years I’ve worked like a slave for you. I have always obeyed your orders. You never gave me even a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends.
He wants us to be holy
Many people believed in the Lord.
Moses lifted up the snake in the desert In the same way the Son of Man must also be lifted up
By saying this it cannot stop being part of the body
So we should give our lives for our brothers and sisters.
For example, by law a married woman remains married as long as her husband lives. But suppose her husband dies. Then the law that joins her to him no longer applies.
Agree with one another Dont be proud Be willing to be a friend of people who arent considered important Dont think that you are better than others
Those things happened to them as examples for us.
He had four unmarried daughters who prophesied
These women were helping to support Jesus and the tewelve disciples with their own money
We havent caused anyone to sin
Be like the Son of Man He did not come to be served Instead he came to serve others He came to give his life as the price for setting many people free
We should not test the Messiah as some of them did They were killed by snakes
He holds the key of David.
With great power the apostles continued their teaching. They were telling people that the Lord Jesus had risen from the dead.
The body is meant for the Lord And the Lord is meant for the body
Or are you the only people it has reached?
When all of them were quiet, he spoke to them in the Aramaic language.
You yourselves are witnesses that I said, ‘I am not the Messiah. I was sent ahead of him.’
Then I was told You must prophesy again about many peoples nations languages and kings
We were supposed to stay there. Mnason was from Cyprus. He was one of the first believers.
Here is how someone can find out whether my teaching comes from God or from me. That person must choose to do what God wants them to do.
Brothers and sisters, here is a mystery
We are telling people about these things. And so is the Holy Spirit. God has given the Spirit to those who obey him.”
I want you to command certain people not to teach things that arent true
Philip found Nathanael and told him, “We have found the one whom Moses wrote about in the Law. The prophets also wrote about him. He is Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”
Dear children we are living in the last days
The shepherds returned They gave glory and praise to God
Jesus got out of the boat A man controlled by an evil spirit came from the tombs to meet him
Don’t let anyone look down on you.
I’m not the only one who loves you. So does everyone who knows the truth.
They will be priests of God and of Christ.
All of them ate and were satisfied. After that, the disciples picked up seven baskets of leftover pieces.
I am short
He is the only God
If we live, we live to honor the Lord.
But the one she marries must belong to the Lord
And suppose the ear says I am not an eye So I dont belong to the body
A man whose right hand was weak and twisted was there
Still another person said, “I will follow you, Lord. But first let me go back and say goodbye to my family.”
So God has put everything under his Son
Holy Father, keep them safe by the power of your name. It is the name you gave me.
At three oclock in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice Eloi Eloi lema sabachthani This means My God my God why have you deserted me
Here is what people who suffer because of Gods plan should do They should commit themselves to their faithful Creator And they should continue to do good
The truth they once had has been taken away from them. They think they can get rich by being godly.
Hide us from the anger of the Lamb
I don't like school.
He is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy
Others make us suffer. But God does not desert us.
Abrham tried.
Masters, treat your slaves in the same way.
But someday we will see clearly. We will see face to face.
This will happen if you don’t believe that I am he. If you don’t believe, you will certainly die in your sins.”
I have worked very hard.
Anyone you forgive I also forgive. Was there anything to forgive?
Whoever walks in the dark does not know where they are going.
The sea gave up the dead that were in it And Death and Hell gave up their dead Each person was judged by what they had done
Now at just the right time he has made his promise clear
David was the son of Jesse
God has formed us for that very purpose
You have lived an easy life on earth.
Jesus did not let him He said Go home to your own people Tell them how much the Lord has done for you Tell them how kind he has been to you
You knew that God had given you better and more lasting things.
For two whole years Paul stayed there in a house he rented.
You didnt want sacrifices and offerings
So they called that field Akeldama. In their language,
When the hour came, Jesus and his apostles took their places at the table.
Bless those who hurt you.
I am going to send you what my Father has promised But for now stay in the city Stay there until you have received power from heaven
It is written
Anyone who believes in the Son has eternal life.
In the same way the chief priests, the teachers of the law and the elders made fun of him.
My mind tells me that what I say is true. It is guided by the Holy Spirit.
The God who chose you is holy So you should be holy in all that you do It is written Be holy because I am holy
So Abraham left the land of Babylonia He settled in Harran
I will destroy the wisdom of those who are wise
They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been blind.
The first creature looked like a lion.
They are not led by the Holy Spirit.
After the feast was over his parents left to go back home
Here is what the story means The seed is Gods message
Some people believe them By doing that they have turned away from the faith
Pilate came out to them He asked What charges are you bringing against this man
“Once it was said to them,
God did not spare the worlds ungodly people long ago He brought the flood on them
They will see the smoke rising as Babylon burns. They will ask, ‘Was there ever a city like this great city?’
Then the voice I had heard from heaven spoke to me again It said The angel is standing on the sea and on the land Go and take the scroll from him It is lying open in his hand
We will hear a blast from God’s trumpet.
We are full of joy even when we suffer.
But another person eats only vegetables because their faith is weak
after that time says the Lord
I do not get rid of the grace of God
Have nothing to do with these people.
Starting from the beginning Peter told them the whole story
People will tell you, ‘There he is!’ Or, ‘Here he is!’ Don’t go running off after them.
But no one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him
We have no homes
He is lifted high above the heavens.
The friend who helps the groom waits and listens for him
I beg you to accept my word It tells you to be faithful Accept my word because I have written to you only a short letter
They were chosen together with you
I do what I don’t want to do. So I agree that the law is good.
We know that “a god made by human hands is really nothing at all in the world.” We know that “there is only one God.”
But some of them said, “Jesus is driving out demons by the power of Beelzebul, the prince of demons.”
Then the leaders of the synagogue sent word to Paul and his companions They said Brothers do you have any words of instruction for the people If you do please speak
Once more Pilate came out. He said to the Jews gathered there, “Look, I am bringing Jesus out to you. I want to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him.”
‘Pick up your mat and walk.’ ”
The teachers of the law and the chief priests looked for a way to arrest Jesus at onceThey knew he had told that story against them But they were afraid of the people
Others said, “No. He only looks like him.”
They will take away our temple and our nation
They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea
Brothers and sisters, we want you to know what happens to those who die.
God placed all things under Christs rule He appointed him to be ruler over everything for the church
He also told us about your love that comes from the Holy Spirit.
Not too far away Peter followed Jesus He went right up to the courtyard of the high priest He entered and sat down with the guards to see what would happen
You nest of poisonous snakes How will you escape from being sentenced to hell
There are no authorities except the ones God has chosen.
Lydia Becomes a Believer in Philippi
Whoever loves other people has done everything the law requires.
But Noah preached about the right way to live God kept him safe He also saved seven others
I didn’t go up to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before I was.
While it is still day, we must do the works of the one who sent me. Night is coming. Then no one can work.
People hear the message about the kingdom but do not understand it Then the evil one comes He steals what was planted in their hearts Those people are like the seed planted on a path
Jesus heard that the Pharisees had thrown the man out of the synagogue. When Jesus found him, he said, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?”
And no one will take away your joy
But he will answer I dont know you And I dont know where you come from
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief
And I will do anything you ask in my name Then the Father will receive glory from the Son
He held seven stars in his right hand
Let both grow together until the harvest. At that time I will tell the workers what to do. Here is what I will say to them. First collect the weeds. Tie them in bundles to be burned. Then gather the wheat. Bring it into my storeroom.’ ”
“Fellow Israelites, help us!” they shouted.
They saw him walking on the lake and were terrified Its a ghost they said And they cried out in fear
Then do what is right
And no one can take this honor for himself
I wanted to spare you, so I didn’t return to Corinth.
When I arrive, I will send some people with your gift to Jerusalem. They will be people you consider to be good. And I will give those letters that explain who they are.
He has not left me alone, because I always do what pleases him.”
It has been given to me and I can give it to anyone I want to
Rich People and the Kingdom of God
They came down the mountain On the way down Jesus told them what to do Dont tell anyone what you have seen he said Wait until the Son of Man has been raised from the dead
Since we live by the Spirit let us keep in step with the Spirit
Why do you call me good Jesus answered No one is good except God
His disciples asked him what the story meant.
Jesus answered her You do not know what Gods gift is And you do not know who is asking you for a drink
Suppose he begins to beat the other slaves And suppose he eats and drinks with those who drink too much
I will only brag about what I have done with that opportunity This opportunity for serving also includes you
At once the mans feet and ankles became strong
The founders of our nation belong to them. The Messiah comes from their family line. He is God over all. May he always be praised! Amen.
He sent messengers on ahead
First, I want you to pray for all people.
Get away
Scripture also says Workers are worthy of their pay
“Then the Lord said to him, ‘Take off your sandals.
He will receive a lighter beating Much will be required of everyone who has been given much
They will be ready to do any good work.
They might understand with their hearts
Then the high priest tore his clothes He said He has spoken a very evil thing against God Why do we need any more witnesses You have heard him say this evil thing
You are the proof that I am the Lord’s apostle.
Look out!
My son Timothy, I am giving you this command.
He is worthy to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength!
You go to the feast. I am not going up to this feast. This is because my time has not yet fully come.”
His disciples answered him. “There is nothing here,” they said. “Where can anyone get enough bread to feed them?”
Why question me
In fact it was just the opposite We worked night and day
“The days are coming, announces the Lord.
The reason you don’t hear is that you don’t belong to God.”
They all rushed into the theater. They dragged Gaius and Aristarchus along with them. These two men had come with Paul from Macedonia.
He was about to give the people reasons for his actions
Because of his faith Moses left Egypt It wasnt because he was afraid of the kings anger He didnt let anything stop him Thats because he saw the God who cant be seen
So Moses led them out of Egypt. He did wonder and signs in Egypt, at the Red Sea, and for  years in the desert.
Long ago your people ate the manna in the desert and they still died
People were causing trouble and making a lot of noise. Some of the teachers of the law who were Pharisees stood up. They argued strongly. “We find nothing wrong with this man,” they said. “What if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him?”
The sun rises Its burning heat dries up the plants Their blossoms fall Their beauty is destroyed In the same way rich people will fade away They fade away even as they go about their business
God is the blessed and only Ruler
I was hungry. But you gave me nothing to eat. I was thirsty. But you gave me nothing to drink.
Here is how you can tell the difference between Gods children and the devils children
At the right time we will gather a crop if we don’t give up.
The believers heard this. Then they raised their voices together in prayer to God. “Lord and King,” they said, “you made the heavens, the earth and the sea. You made everything in them.
I’m afraid that you won’t find me as you want me to be.
now you build the prophets tombs
Moses said I am trembling with fear
He said,They are the ones who have come out of the time of terrible suffering.
Dont spend time thinking about what you will eat or drink Dont worry about it
They may have escaped the sin of the world. They may have come to know our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But what if they are once again caught up in sin? And what if it has become their master? Then they are worse off at the end than they were at the beginning.
You can shut up now
Is anyone among you sick Then that person should send for the elders of the church to pray over them
He healed all who were under the devil’s power.
The second man came from heaven
He has also given us his very great and valuable promises. He did it so you could share in his nature. You can share in it because you’ve escaped from the evil in the world. This evil is caused by sinful desires.
you know that everyone who does what is right is Gods child
Give a lot of time and effort to prayer. Always be watchful and thankful.
While he was blessing them, he left them. He was taken up into heaven.
He has never obeyed the truth. There is no truth in him.
If I hadnt they would not be guilty of sin
Another says, “I follow Peter.”
In Lystra there sat a man who couldnt walk
We are like the earthly man And we will be like the heavenly man
The man answered, “That is really surprising! You don’t know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes.
Suppose I speak in the languages of human beings or of angels
The two returned and told the others about it. But the others did not believe them either.
I watched as the Lamb broke open the sixth seal There was a powerful earthquake
He came to his hometown of Nazareth. There he began teaching the people in their synagogue. They were amazed. “Where did this man get this wisdom? Where did he get this power to do miracles?” they asked.
An evil and unfaithful people look for a sign. But none will be given to them except the sign of Jonah.” Then Jesus left them and went away.
He burned them to ashes.
Then he fell on his knees. He cried out,
The God of Israel chose our people who lived long ago.
But suppose your eyes cant see well Then your body also is full of darkness
So I went to the angel and asked him to give me the little scroll. He said to me, “Take it and eat it. It will become sour in your stomach. But ‘in your mouth it will taste as sweet as honey.’ ”
All the people from the countryside of Judea went out to him. All the people from Jerusalem went too. When they admitted they had sinned, John baptized them in the Jordan River.
Scripture says, “That’s why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. The two will become one.”
So they took away the stone.
He said
They beat back armies from other countries
We work together to serve God
They have to earn the food they eat.
Not one of you will lose a single hair from your head.
He has saved us from the kingdom of darkness
The result of God’s gift is different from the result of Adam’s sin.
I looked, and there in front of me was a white cloud. Sitting on the cloud was one who looked “like a son of man.”  He wore a gold crown on his head. In his hand was a sharp, curved blade for cutting grain.
Jesus commanded Peter Put your sword away
Was there ever a prophet your people didn’t try to hurt?
Every day I was with you in the temple courtyard And you didnt lay a hand on me But this is your hour This is when darkness rules
He was the only son of his mother
evil people.
The God of Israel chose our people who lived long ago
Those who wear fine clothes and have many expensive things are in palaces.
don’t speak against one another.
Brothers and sisters we want you to know about the grace that God has given to the churches in Macedonia
John was also baptizing He was at Aenon near Salim where there was plenty of water
They, too, will drink the wine of God’s great anger. His wine has been poured full strength into the cup of his anger. They will be burned with flaming sulfur. The holy angels and the Lamb will see it happen.
They dont agree that Jesus Christ came in a human body People like this try to trick others
Some of the Pharisees said, “It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day. Why are you doing it?”
Moses first announced every command of the law to all the people. Then he took the blood of calves. He also took water, bright red wool and branches of a hyssop plant. He sprinkled the Book of the Covenant. He also sprinkled all the people.
Others may not think of me as an apostle But I am certainly one to you
Because tomorrow we will die.”
They will all come out of their graves. People who have done what is good will rise and live again. People who have done what is evil will rise and be found guilty.
They were trying to trap Jesus with that question They wanted to have a reason to bring charges against him
Jesus looked up and saw a large crowd coming toward him
God will do it at once.
Because of this many of the Berean Jews believed
You have loved what is right and hated what is evil.
But they should be slow to speak
But the fruit the Holy Spirit produces is love, joy and peace. It is being patient, kind and good. It is being faithful
If Satan fights against himself how can his kingdom stand I say this because of what you claim
So I thought I should try to get the brothers to visit you ahead of time. They will finish the plans for the large gift you had promised. Then it will be ready as a gift freely given. It will not be given by force.
They rushed out into the crowd.
Be loving in everything you do
Some time later, Jesus went to a town called Nain.
I will be his Father
No one who remains joined to him keeps on sinning No one who keeps on sinning has seen him or known him
I am not commanding you to do it But I want to test you I want to find out if you really love God I want to compare your love with that of others
We are pushed hard from all sides. But we are not beaten down.
Their troops are as many as the grains of sand on the seashore
You are all these things so that you can give him praise
Jesus went on to say What can I compare todays people to
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were very angry. They began to talk to one another about what they might do to Jesus.
So they led him by the hand into Damascus.
But the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus
“How can this be?” Nicodemus asked.
“Teacher,” he said, “I beg you to look at my son.
Remember Lots wife
If you are you will do what Abraham did
It is for people who tell lies in court.It is for those who are a witness to things that aren’t true.
they did not come only because of Jesus. They also came to see Lazarus. After all, Jesus had raised him from the dead.
He will set himself up in Gods temple
He was preached among the nations.
“The time has come,” he said. “The kingdom of God has come near. Turn away from your sins and believe the good news!”Jesus Chooses His First Disciples
They said, “Who is this who even forgives sins?”
Suppose you see any brother or sister commit a sin. But this sin is not the kind that leads to death.
Stretch out your hand to heal Do signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus
Then they looked up and saw that the stone had been rolled away. The stone was very large.
The Lord will save me from every evil attack. He will bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom. Give him glory for ever and ever. Amen.
We were also happy to share our lives with you.
Then they will have plenty to take care of what you need.
“Listen, fellow children of Abraham! Listen, you Gentiles who worship God! This message of salvation has been sent to us.
Jesus went to the area of Caesarea Philippi. There he asked his disciples, “Who do people say the Son of Man is?”
Peter and the other apostles replied We must obey God instead of people
He will bring back many of the people of Israel to the Lord their God.
No outsider dared to join them. But the people thought highly of them.
“Master,” he said to him, “it is good for us to be here
Then I heard how many people were marked with the seal
Dear friend I know that your spiritual life is going well I pray that you also may enjoy good health And I pray that everything else may go well with you
And the good news is announced to those who are poor
As far as sin is concerned we are dead
They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem. There they found the  disciples and those with them. They were all gathered together.
Anyone who enters through me will be saved.
And in their tails they had power to hurt people over and over for five months.
You have let go of God’s commands. And you are holding on to teachings that people have made up.”
All his followers were scattered
Its OK
Be patient. Put up with one another in love.
When that day comes, you will ask for things in my name. I am not saying I will ask the Father instead of you asking him.
They wondered which one of them would do it.
I will also make it with the people of Judah.
He is not the God of the dead He is the God of the living In his eyes everyone is alive
They asked one last time, “Who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?”
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa. Those women work hard for the Lord.
It is from me not a direct command from the Lord
But the Pharisees and their teachers of the law complained to Jesus’ disciples. They said, “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?”
And to still others he gives the ability to explain what was said in those languages
It is for ungodly and sinful people.
So when Christ came into the world he said
Do this because whoever suffers in their body is finished with sin.
It will all come about when history has been completed. God will then bring together all things in heaven and on earth under Christ.
Then the master called the first servant in You evil servant he said I forgave all that you owed me because you begged me to
Our work is in danger of losing its good name. People’s faith in the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be weakened. Now she is worshiped all over Asia Minor and the whole world. But soon she will be robbed of her greatness.”
He said, “Go away. The girl is not dead. She is sleeping.” But they laughed at him.
Instead, serve one another in love.
He saw a tax collector sitting at the tax booth. The man’s name was Levi.
He wanted us to be adopted as children with all the rights children have
Give praise to the God who is able to keep you from falling into sin He will bring you into his heavenly glory without any fault He will bring you there with great joy
When they were not accepted it became possible for the whole world to be brought back to God So what will happen when they are accepted It will be like life from the dead
There they presented him to the Lord
Then he turned toward the woman
over all these good things put on love
The other guests began to talk about this among themselves. They said, “Who is this who even forgives sins?”
Babylon the Great has fallen
I brought him to your disciples. But they couldn’t heal him.”
Has anyone ever given anything to God
John answered Anyone who has extra clothes should share with the one who has none
As soon as Judas took the bread, Satan entered into him.
He gave freely to people who were in need.
“Just then three men stopped at the house where I was staying. They had been sent to me from Caesarea.
Dont pay back evil with evil Dont pay back unkind words with unkind words Instead pay back evil with kind words This is what you have been chosen to do You will receive a blessing by doing this
I give you a command in the sight of God and Christ Jesus Christ will judge the living and the dead Because he and his kingdom are coming here is the command I give you
I thought like a child
Lord do you want us to call down fire from heaven to destroy them
The time came for this to be done All who had gathered to worship were praying outside
The statue could kill all who refused to worship it.
After this Jesus went down to Capernaum His mother and brothers and disciples went with him
The head of John the Baptist she answered
You have come to the spirits of godly people who have been made perfect
But David was a prophet. He knew that God had made a promise to him. God had promised that he would make someone in David’s family line king after him.
Then Jesus left the area of Tyre and went through Sidon He went down to the Sea of Galilee and into the area known as the Ten Cities
A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. The demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs. And he allowed it.
Then all people will honor the Son just as they honor the Father.
The world and its evil desires are passing away.
But why is God so kind to me? Why has the mother of my Lord come to me?
But he said,
While he was still on his way home, his slaves met him. They gave him the news that his boy was living.
Because God gave his word Jesus makes certain the promise of a better covenant
“Bring them here to me,” he said.
You were enemies in your minds because of your evil ways.
And now you have handed him over to his enemies. You have murdered him.
What I’m about to tell you is true. My Father will give you anything you ask for in my name.
generals
So turn away from your sins!
They were set free to kill a third of all people.
This is the man who teaches everyone in all places against our people He speaks against our law and against this holy place
How long do I have to stay with you
God lives in anyone who agrees that Jesus is the Son of God. This kind of person remains joined to God.
The Son of Man is going to come in his Father’s glory. His angels will come with him. And he will reward everyone in keeping with what they have done.
You can’t outsmart God.
I will be their God.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered brings shame on her head
John answered, “Anyone who has extra clothes should share with the one who has none.
I say this to shame you.
Herod and his soldiers laughed at him and made fun of him They dressed him in a beautiful robe Then they sent him back to Pilate
Jesus Forgives and Heals a Man Who Could Not Walk
But Mary stood outside the tomb crying.
To others the same Spirit gives a message of knowledge.
Do all explain what is said in those languages?
If one part suffers, every part suffers with it.
That’s the way it is with you. Now it’s your time to be sad. But I will see you again. Then you will be full of joy. And no one will take away your joy.
The seed that fell among thorns stands for those who hear the message. But as they go on their way, they are choked by life’s worries, riches and pleasures. So they do not reach full growth.
‘Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will do it for anyone who carries out my plans to the end. I will give that person authority over the nations.
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will dress that person in white like those worthy people. I will never erase their names from the book of life. I will speak of them by name to my Father and his angels.
If you dont wake up I will come like a thief
When Jesus went outside the Pharisees and the teachers of the law strongly opposed him They threw a lot of questions at him
My disciples does the world hate you Remember that it hated me first
When the crowd saw this, they were filled with wonder. They praised God for giving that kind of authority to a human being.
This agrees with what the Lord has said. When the Lord comes, many of us will still be alive.
A will is in effect only when somebody has died
No one measures up to Gods glory
All this time, have you been thinking that I’ve been speaking up for myself? No, I’ve been speaking with God as my witness. I’ve been speaking like a believer in Christ. Dear friends, everything I do is to help you become stronger.
“The teachings of the Law and the Prophets were preached until John the Baptist came. Since then, the good news of God’s kingdom is being preached. And everyone is trying very hard to enter it.
The bride belongs to the groom
They asked Who is like the beast
But woman is the glory of man.
The apostles called him Barnabas
My brothers and sisters in this way remain strong in the Lord I love you and long for you Dear friends you are my joy and my crown
There the commander found a ship from Alexandria sailing for Italy He put us on board
Joshua was the son of Eliezer
What if a person could become right with God by obeying the law? Then Christ died for nothing!
I belong to God and serve him Last night his angel stood beside me
But everything comes from God
But he said to me My grace is all you need
Then God’s people will shine like the sun in their Father’s kingdom. Whoever has ears should listen.
You are blind Which is more important Is it the gift Or is it the altar that makes the gift holy
The disciples picked up twelve baskets of broken pieces of bread and fish.
People who dont believe might say you are doing wrong
Here are the words of Jesus, who holds the seven stars in his right hand. He also walks among the seven golden lampstands. He says,
The two disciples heard him say this. So they followed Jesus.
Jesus answered, “You say that I am a king. In fact, that’s the reason I was born. I was born and came into the world to be a witness to the truth. Everyone who is on the side of truth listens to me.”
God always gives you all the grace you need. So you will only have to suffer for a little while. Then God himself will build you up again. He will make you strong and steady. And he has chosen you to share in his eternal glory because you belong to Christ.
To some people the Spirit gives a message of wisdom
they saw the signs he did
I want you to know how hard I am working for you.
Fathers suppose your son asks for a fish Which of you will give him a snake instead
Yes, I tell you, the people of today will be punished for all these things.
The crowd joined the attack against Paul and Silas
“But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?”
They tried to tell him what to say But he motioned for them to be quiet
We received grace because of what Jesus did. He made us apostles to the Gentiles. We must invite all of them to obey God by trusting in Jesus. We do this to bring glory to him.
Remember Jesus Christ. He came from David’s family line.
Melchizedek blessed the one who had received the promises
Brothers and sisters,
"I used my free time to overcome the burden of daily life," he said.
As his children, we will receive all that he has for us.
Salvation also belongs to the Lamb
Then the Lord spoke to him. “You Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and dish,” he said. “But inside you are full of greed and evil.
I received help from other churches so I could serve you This was almost like robbing them
And his commands are not hard to obey.
You followed us. You welcomed our message even when you were suffering terribly. You welcomed it with the joy the Holy Spirit gives.
When he came, he went through the greater and more perfect holy tent.
She runs.
The Son of God keeps them safe
Is that blessing only for those who are circumcised? Or is it also for those who are not circumcised? We have been saying that God accepted Abraham’s faith. So his faith made him right with God.
Jesus went to the area of Caesarea Philippi There he asked his disciples Who do people say the Son of Man is
I will give water to anyone who is thirsty.
Jesus replied, “Foxes have dens. Birds have nests. But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”
Did he becomes right with God because of something he did?
No one should treat him badly Send him safely on his way so he can return to me Im expecting him to come back along with the others
Suffering for Being a Christian
A sword will wound your own soul too
Do this because whoever suffers in their body is finished with sin
He isn’t like the other high priests. They need to offer sacrifices day after day. First they bring offerings for their own sins. Then they do it for the sins of the people. But Jesus gave one sacrifice for the sins of the people. He gave it once and for all time. He did it by offering himself.
So here is what Im asking you to do Dont lose hope because I am suffering for you It will lead to the time when God will give you his glory
The Son of the Most High God will rule forever over his people. They are from the family line of Jacob.
“He saved others,” they said. “But he can’t save himself! He’s the king of Israel! Let him come down now from the cross! Then we will believe in him.
No widow should be put on the list of widows unless she is more than  years old She must also have been faithful to her husband
Jesus became angry He reached out his hand and touched the man I am willing to do it Jesus said Be clean
No one gave it to me No one taught it to me
Dont you see Everything that enters the mouth goes into the stomach Then it goes out of the body
I saw a great white throne And I saw God sitting on it When the earth and sky saw his face they ran away There was no place for them
He is able to strengthen your faith. He does this in keeping with the good news and the message I preach.
He appeared to Peter Then he appeared to the  apostles
That word contains the mystery that has been hidden for many ages.
The Lamb is the one whose death was planned before the world was created
Every day they met together in the temple courtyard.
They were filled with wonder They were amazed at what had happened to him
I will send Artemas or Tychicus to you Then do your best to come to me at Nicopolis Ive decided to spend the winter there
Welcome
With great power the apostles continued their teaching. They were telling people that the Lord Jesus had risen from the dead. And God’s grace was working powerfully in all of them.
And I sent our brother with him
But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness. They walk around in the darkness. They don’t know where they are going. The darkness has made them blind.
“And do not say, ‘Who will go down into the grave?’ ” That means to bring Christ up from the dead.
Jesus replied Friend do what you came to do
There we found some believers.
The man’s ears were opened. His tongue was freed up, and he began to speak clearly.
But Peter would not give in He said I may have to die with you But I will never say I dont know you And all the others said the same thing
And dont let the world make you impure
I tell you, you will not get out until you have paid the very last penny!”
I have shown you to the disciples you gave me out of the world
Grab him
There he preached that people should be baptized and turn away from their sins.
I say to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
What we know now is not complete What we prophesy now is not perfect
who it is
So we can know the God who is true
So I say live by the Holy Spirits power Then you will not do what your desires controlled by sin want you to do
But Christ is faithful as the Son over the house of God.
“Is this your son?” they asked. “Is this the one you say was born blind?
I wish you had been here! Then my brother would not have died.”
Death through Adam Life Through Christ
Let the Jews who are here tell you what crime I am guilty of After all I was put on trial by the Sanhedrin
Again Jesus said, “What can we say God’s kingdom is like? What story can we use to explain it?
He said Who made you ruler and judge over us
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were whispering among themselves They said This man welcomes sinners and eats with them
“Brothers will hand over brothers to be killed. Fathers will hand over their children. Children will rise up against their parents and have them put to death.
You  clean the outside of the  dish
The crowd there heard the voice. Some said it was thunder. Others said an angel had spoken to Jesus.
He was raised from the dead. That is my good news.
It is the same with us When we were children we were slaves to the basic spiritual powers of the world
Jesus took the five loaves and the two fish. He looked up to heaven and gave thanks. He broke them into pieces. Then he gave them to the disciples to give to the people.
He will announce my name to the Gentiles and to their kings
Levi was the son of Simeon
That is true in a special way of elders who preach and teach.
For three and a half days people will stare at their bodies These people will be from every tribe and nation no matter what language they speak They will refuse to bury them
But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the mighty God.”
asked him, “If you are not the Messiah, why are you baptizing people?
All the believers used to meet together at Solomon’s Porch.
They shouldnt wear their hair in very fancy styles
At that time Simons mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever
Brothers and sisters, we should always thank God for you.
The full effects of our salvation are closer now than when we first believed in Christ.
Then Jesus entered the temple courtyard He began to drive out those who were selling there
The Story of the Farmer
Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?”
The locusts were not allowed to kill these people But the locusts could hurt them over and over for five months
The Lord said to my Lord
Then things will go well with you You will live a long time on the earth
Suppose you call yourself a Jew.
Early in the morning Jesus stood on the shore
Then who can sentence us to death? No one. Christ Jesus is at the right hand of God and is also praying for us. He died. More than that, he was raised to life.
In the church, I wouldn’t want to speak ten thousend words in an unfamiliar language. I’d rather speak five words in a language people could understand. Then I would be teaching others.
He prayed to God regularly.
Dear friends you have already been warned about this So be on your guard Then you wont be led astray by people who dont obey the law Instead you will remain safe
More Teachings
What I’m about to tell you is true. All this will happen to those who are now living.
Stop wanting what others have
Those who make peace plant it like a seed They will harvest a crop of right living
Don’t give the devil a chance.
I wrote it all down
But here is what I tell you who are listening
You did not give me any water to wash my feet
Even better God knows you
Paul Is Arrested
They can speak to themselves and to God.
Thats because Christ suffered for you He left you an example that he expects you to follow
Lets visit the believers and see how they are doing
Jesus stopped and called out to them. “What do you want me to do for you?” he asked.
It should be accepted completely.
Paul Brags about His Sufferings
About eight days after Jesus said this; he went up on a mountain to pray. He took Peter, John and James with him.
I don't want to wait.
Have fun.
But God set me apart from before the time I was born He showed me his grace by appointing me He was pleased
We all fell to the ground. I heard a voice speak to me in the Aramaic language. ‘Saul! Saul!’ it said. ‘Why are you opposing me? It is hard for you to go against what you know is right.’
But the Son of God came to destroy the devil’s work.
His eyes see everything
Young Makuria is a right-wing resident of the city of Tsitsqa ።
It is written, “They will rule them with an iron scepter. They will break them to pieces like clay pots.”  Their authority is like the authority I’ve received from my Father.
Be careful not to do good deeds in front of other people Dont do those deeds to be seen by others If you do your Father in heaven will not reward you
He did not hold people’s sins against them.
Dont let anyone fool you with worthless words
And God the Father will receive the glory
You were taught not to live the way you used to You must get rid of your old way of life
Everyone who does evil deeds hates the light.
He said to them Every teacher of the law who has become a disciple in the kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house He brings new treasures out of his storeroom as well as old ones
Give these instructions to the people. Then no one can be blamed.
People heard about all that Jesus was doing. And many came to him. They came from Judea, Jerusalem and Idumea. They came from the lands east of the Jordan River. And they came from the area around Tyre and Sidon.
That’s why Christ is the go-between of a new covenant. Now those God calls to himself will receive the eternal gift he promised. They will receive it now that Christ has died to save them. He died to set them free from the sins they committed under the first covenant.
But you do have this in your favor. You hate the way the Nicolaitans act. I hate it too.
Thats because he is the most powerful Lord of all and the greatest King of all
You shouldn’t stop giving yourselves to each other. You might possibly do this when you both agree to it. And you should only agree to it to give yourselves time to pray.
He replied, “I don’t know if he is a sinner or not. I do know one thing. I was blind, but now I can see!”
So she went home and found her child lying on the bed And the demon was gone
It was six days before the Passover Feast. Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus lived. Lazarus was the one Jesus had risen from the dead.
In fact, they are blind. They have forgotten that their past sins have been washed away.
Those who heard what he had said began to go away. They left one at a time, the older ones first. Soon only Jesus was left. The woman was still standing there.
The second beast performed great signs It even made fire come from heaven to the earth And the fire was seen by everyone
These facts can’t be questioned. So calm down.
But God had given a promise through all the prophets. And this is how he has made his promise come true. He said that his Messiah would suffer.
I dont know if his body was taken up or not Only God knows
A church leader takes care of God’s family. That’s why he must be without blame. He must not look after only his own interests.
Peter’s actions were not honest, and other Jews in Antioch joined him. Even Barnabas was led astray.
So the women hurried away from the tomb They were afraid but they were filled with joy They ran to tell the disciples
I don’t make my plans the way the world makes theirs. In the same breath the world says both, “Yes! Yes!” and “No! No!”
I pray to God that you won’t do anything wrong.
The Blood of Christ
“Beginning with Samuel, all the prophets spoke about this. They said these days would come.
The law that was given to the people called for the priestly system That system began with Levi
You also must be ready
Then one of the elders said to me Do not cry The Lion of the tribe of Judah has won the battle He is the Root of David He is able to break the seven seals and open the scroll
Do you think of me as a believer who works together with you? Then welcome Onesimus as you would welcome me.
Yes, you are our glory and our joy.
Then I heard a loud voice from the temple speaking to the seven angels Go it said Pour out the seven bowls of Gods great anger on the earth
“The only Father we have is God himself.”
You know very well how the day of the Lord will come. It will come like a thief in the night.
But after many sins, God’s gift made people right with him.
I’m talking about the other person’s sense of what is right and wrong, not yours.
And I am the worst sinner of all.
Then you will have even more joy when Christ returns in glory.
They will finally get exactly what they deserve.
Glory has come to me because of my disciples
I'll let Abrham  tell you.
Don’t have anything to do with godless stories and silly tales. Instead, train yourself to be godly.
I will take away their sins.”
I know that feeling.
So he went to the synagogue.
Some of our women amazed us too Early this morning they went to the tomb
Remember Alexander, the one who works with metal. He did me a great deal of harm. The Lord will pay him back for what he has done.
They were asking Where is he
Instead, they feed
They don’t love their brother or sister, whom they have seen. So they can’t love God, whom they haven’t seen.
Jesus spoke to the Jews who had believed him. “If you obey my teaching,” he said, “you are really my disciples.
This years drought has not even grown grass for cattle
So he stayed two days.
Even the message God spoke through angels had to be obeyed. Every time people broke the Law, they were punished. Every time they didn’t obey, they were punished.
When it was time to leave, we continued on our way.
When the disciples saw this, they were amazed. “How did the fig tree dry up so quickly?” they asked.
Do not be afraid I bring you good news
‘I won’t ask the rest of you in Thyatira to do anything else. You don’t follow the teaching of Jezebel. You haven’t learned what some people call Satan’s deep secrets.
We have a high priest who can feel it when we are weak and hurting We have a high priest who has been tempted in every way just as we are But he did not sin
But I didnt want to do anything unless you agreed Any favor you do must be done because you want to do it not because you have to
I really am unlucky
He prophesied that Jesus would die for the Jewish nation
And they praised God because of me.
Who can make war against it?”
Because of what Christ has done you believe in God
He didnt dare to look
The apostles began to ask one another about this.
John replied Dont force people to give you money
If we know that God hears what we ask for
He likes to watch TV.
They do not allow people to get married They order them not to eat certain foods
“Go away!” he said. “What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth?
Then Jesus said I am the bread of life
Buy from me white clothes to wear. Then you will be able to cover the shame of your naked bodies.
I have written both of them as reminders I want to encourage you to think in a way that is pure
“ ‘Come out of her, my people.’
Jesus answered them When you destroy this temple
He came to what was his own. But his own people did not accept him.
Get real
Circumcision and uncircumcision don’t mean anything. What really counts is that the new creation has come.
Long ago Gods word brought the heavens into being His word separated the earth from the waters And the waters surrounded it But these people forget things like that on purpose
Pour out the seven bowls of Gods great anger on the earth
So suppose someone knows the good deeds they should do
You broke the rules.
Then the man jumped up and began to walk
When they looked up they saw no one except Jesus
Instead go to the people of Israel They are like sheep that have become lost
Those who have served well earn the full respect of others. They also become more sure of their faith in Christ Jesus.
Many others who lived in Corinth heard Paul They too believed and were baptized
Here is the name that is written on the rider’s robe and on his thigh.
So I went and washed
We have a lot to say about this
Nevertheless the Chinese millionaire and businessman Liang Shi fifty six  did not give up ።
He told us how he had seen an angel appear in his house
Even so Abraham was going to offer him up
I am poor at drawing.
Felix sent for Paul and listened to him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
I do not call you slaves anymore
If not, it will return to you.
They asked Why dont your disciples obey what the elders teach Your disciples dont wash their hands before they eat
I now say it again while I’m away.
He gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to heal sicknesses
So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God by believing in Christ
Always give thanks to God the Father for everything. Give thanks to him in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
A lot of stuff that we cant decide as much as this is gone a lot of machine is gone።
If our hearts judge us we know that God is greater than our hearts And he knows everything
The Lord himself will come down from heaven.
Each of you should stay as you were when God chose you
He did this by taking on the nature of a servant.
Jesus was teaching in the temple courtyard He asked Why do the teachers of the law say that the Messiah is the son of David
I am happy to tell you that he is working very hard for you. He is also working hard for everyone in Laodicea and Hierapolis.
The disciple was leaning back against Jesus.  “Lord,
While they were at the table eating, Jesus said, “What I’m about to tell you is true. One of you who is eating with me will hand me over to my enemies.”
Jesus said to them You will drink the cup I drink And you will go through the baptism I go through
This became known all over Joppa.
It is surrounded by five rows of columns with a roof over them.
I know where she is.
Give to everyone what you owe them
A number of important Greek women also became believers. And so did many Greek men.
The Wise and Foolish Builders
Pauls Vision of the Man from Macedonia
The Lord Jesus will overthrow him with the breath of his mouth
How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree We are the temple of the living God God has said
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were whispering among themselves. They said, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”
Eat the bodies of all people
You will look for me,
Jesus also did many other things. What if every one of them was written down? I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written.
So I went and washed.
But it talks big.
Jesus was aware that his disciples were complaining about his teaching So he said to them
He committed suicide
Then they asked him, “Where is your father?”
Be loving in everything you do.
They serve him day and night in his temple
So you have filled me with joy.
They must take good care of their homes.
I am by far the least important of the entire Lord’s holy people. But he gave me the grace to preach to the Gentiles about the unlimited riches that Christ gives.
Then I saw three evil spirits that looked like frogs.
The first time I was put on trial no one came to help me Everyone deserted me I hope they will be forgiven for it
The rest were killed by the sword that came out of the rider’s mouth.
They must hate their brothers and sisters And they must hate even their own life
But they will have to explain their actions to God. He is ready to judge those who are alive and those who are dead.
And in the morning you say, ‘Today it will be stormy. The sky is red and cloudy.’ You know the meaning of what you see in the sky. But you can’t understand the signs of what is happening right now.
When it was time to leave, we continued on our way. All the believers, including their whole families, went with us out of the city. There on the beach we got down on our knees to pray.
I have finished the race
The sea gave up the dead that were in it. And Death and Hell gave up their dead. Each person was judged by what they had done.
The sixth was made out of ruby.
Right away her bleeding stopped. She felt in her body that her suffering was over.
But keep away from foolish disagreements Dont argue about family histories Dont make trouble Dont fight about what the law teaches Dont argue about things like that It doesnt do any good It doesnt help anyone
But few things are needed. Really, only one thing is needed.
Some time later, Jesus went to a town called Nain. His disciples and a large crowd went along with him.
And I obey his word
So he sent out two of his disciples He told them Go into the city A man carrying a jar of water will meet you Follow him
She cried
They would rather have statues of gods than the glorious God who lives forever Their statues of gods are made to look like people birds animals and reptiles
Do not take a purse or bag or sandals. And don’t greet anyone on the road.
Moses is the one who does that And he is the one you build your hopes on
Only two or three prophets are supposed to speak
Anyone you forgive I also forgive Was there anything to forgive
This made the Jews ask, “Will he kill himself? Is that why he says, ‘You can’t come where I am going’?”
The student is not better than the teacher A slave is not better than his master
My dear friends, don’t try to get even. Leave room for God to show his anger. It is written, “I am the God who judges people. I will pay them back,”  says the Lord.
Was a man already circumcised when God chose him? Then he should not become uncircumcised.
Jesus was standing in front of the governor The governor asked him Are you the king of the Jews
The rest grabbed his slaves They treated them badly and then killed them
To the Jews I became like a Jew. That was to win the Jews. To those under the law I became like one who was under the law. I did this even though I myself am not under the law. That was to win those under the law.
May grace be with you?
Others said an angel had spoken to Jesus
Melki was the son of Addi
He was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest at that time.
It shone with the glory of God It gleamed like a very valuable jewel It was like a jasper as clear as crystal
Thats because I hear about your love for all Gods people
The smoke from her fire goes up for ever and ever.”
I have seen it happen.
The one who plants and the one who waters have the same purpose.
But Herod said, “I had John’s head cut off. So who is it that I hear such things about?” And he tried to see Jesus.
Do not test the Lord your God.
You have stood by me during my troubles.
I looked into it and saw four-footed animals of the earth.
So we must pay the most careful attention to what we have heard. Then we will not drift away from it.
“We gave you clear orders not to teach in Jesus’ name,” he said.
They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha. The word Golgotha means the Place of the Skull.
evil people
The Holy Spirit told Philip,
So I would have liked to keep Onesimus with me And he could take your place in helping me
Jesus disciples heard this Many of them said
Paul Asks for Prayer
After six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John the brother of James with him. He led them up a high mountain. They were all alone.
The god of this world has blinded the minds of those who dont believe They cant see the light of the good news that makes Christs glory clear Christ is the likeness of God
How terrible it will be for them!
Every sea captain and all who travel by ship will stand far away So will the sailors and all who earn their living from the sea
People should judge me by what I do and say.
Even though they were very poor, they gave very freely.
The last enemy that will be destroyed is death
“I will never leave you.
You are worthy because you created all things
I know them and they follow me
He also prophesied that Jesus would die for Gods children scattered everywhere He would die to bring them together and make them one
Brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the hard times we had in Asia Minor. We were having a lot of trouble. It was far more than we could stand. We even thought we were going to die.
He stomps on the grapes of Gods winepress
And they are trying to kill me
This happened so that the words Jesus had spoken would come true
Follow the way of love.
In any case, I haven’t caused you any expense.
Dear friends, don’t be surprised by the terrible things happening to you. The trouble you are having has come to test you. So don’t feel as if something strange were happening to you.
“And anyone who welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me.
No one understands
Thats an example for the present time
How can you say to your friend, ‘Let me take the bit of sawdust out of your eye’? How can you say this while there is a piece of wood in your own eye?
Jesus stopped and ordered the man to be brought to him When the man came near Jesus spoke to him
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peacePaul Prays and Gives Thanks
Werent they all the people Moses led out of Egypt
I’ve become wealthy and don’t need anything.”
I am free and don’t belong to anyone.
I thought it was true.
Here is the part of Scripture the official was reading. It says,
Who can say anything about his children?
Should we pay or shouldn’t we?”
A commander was standing there as they stretched Paul out to be whipped. Paul said to him, “Does the law allow you to whip a Roman citizen who hasn’t even been found guilty?”
I know that you are Abraham’s children. But you are looking for a way to kill me. You have no room for my word.
The Lamb opened the seventh seal. Then there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
Caiaphas had advised the Jewish leaders that it would be good if one man died for the people.
But Christ offered himself to God without any flaw. He did this through the power of the eternal Holy Spirit. So how much cleaner will the blood of Christ make us! It washes away our feelings of guilt for committing sin. Sin always leads to death. But now we can serve the living God.
Be watchful so that you can pray Always keep on praying for all the Lords people
What I wrote to you I wrote for a special reason. When I came, I didn’t want to be troubled by those who should make me glad. I was sure that all of you would share my joy.
Jesus Speaks a Third Time About His Coming Death
Blessed are those who are hungry and thirsty for what is right.
Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues on a Sabbath day
Their king was the angel of the Abyss.
you wont have to depend on anyone
The Holy Spirit had not yet come on any of them They had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus
here is one thing you must not forget.
His disciples replied, “Lord, if he’s sleeping, he will get better.”
He is dear to you not only as another human being. He is also dear to you as a brother in the Lord.
When the governor saw what had happened, he believed. He was amazed at what Paul was teaching about the Lord.
But he warned them not to tell other people about him
They have shared in the Holy Spirit.
The Pharisees argued with him Here you are they said appearing as your own witness But your witness does not count
Whoever hates me hates my Father also
You are Gods chosen people You are holy and dearly loved So put on tender mercy and kindness as if they were your clothes Dont be proud Be gentle and patient
Tell Archippus
We never stop thanking God for the way you received his word. You heard it from us. But you didn’t accept it as a human word. You accepted it for what it really is. It is God’s word. It is really at work in you who believe.
Huge hailstones weighing about one hundred pounds each fell from the sky. The hail crushed people.
You are the light of the world A town built on a hill cant be hidden
Suppose someone has made us sad In some ways he hasnt made me sad so much as he has made all of you sad But I dont want to put this too strongly
All who heard him were amazed. They asked, “Isn’t he the man who caused great trouble in Jerusalem? Didn’t he make trouble for those who worship Jesus?
They were terrified.
Wash up
Do not work for food that spoils. Work for food that lasts forever. That is the food the Son of Man will give you. For God the Father has put his seal of approval on him.”
But your sins were washed away. You were made holy. You were made right with God.
The respect for living has led to the world being able to identify the question ።
Liang'im, who had been squeezed out of the  exams he took from  - , did not achieve the feat to attend university።
All the trees that dont produce good fruit will be cut down They will be thrown into the fire
She asked Peter, “You aren’t one of Jesus’ disciples too, are you?”
So they went their separate ways Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus
Then they believed the Scripture. They also believed the words that Jesus had spoken.
The dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to have a baby The dragon wanted to eat her child the moment he was born
He is Jesus Christ the Blameless One
I'm full.
I saw an angel standing in the sun He shouted to all the birds flying high in the air Come Gather together for the great supper of God
I, the elder, am writing this letter.
Pray for us We feel sure we have done what is right We desire to live as we should in every way
When these desires are allowed to remain they lead to sin
So a third of each of them turned dark.
And you shouldn’t be committed only when I am with you. You should always be committed.
The name of the star is Wormwood
The New Jerusalem is the Bride of the Lamb
Gods gift cant be compared with Adams sin
While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting the Holy Spirit spoke Set apart Barnabas and Saul for me he said I have appointed them to do special work
Dont let all kinds of strange teachings lead you astray
I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me. I have come to get sinners to turn away from their sins.”
Not one of you will lose a single hair from your head
You weren’t pleased with them.”
She refuses to be comfortedbecause they are gone
How I've missed you!
Some seed fell on rocky ground
In fact he almost died
And the Father has given him the authority to judge. This is because he is the Son of Man.
This beast had all the authority of the first beast. It did what the first beast wanted. It made the earth and all who live on it worship the first beast. The first beast was the one whose deadly wound had been healed.
Shut up!
Run.
nations
We sailed across the open sea off the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia. Then we landed at Myra in Lycia.
He chose you to be saved by accepting the good news that we preach. And you will share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
great and small.”
I have always wanted to preach the good news where Christ was not known I dont want to build on what someone else has started
Or don’t you know that the Lord’s people will judge the world?
A man should not cover his head. He is the likeness and glory of God. But woman is the glory of man.
The armies of heaven were following him riding on white horses They were dressed in fine linen white and clean
No But this mob knows nothing about the law There is a curse on them
I serve the Lord
Day and night they never stop saying
and break open its seals
Then Pilate went out again to the Jews gathered there He said I find no basis for any charge against him
They don’t accept authority.
Gods Wisdom Through the Holy Spirit
We will hear a loud command
Everyone in heaven and on earth and under the earth will kneel down to worship him.
A dinner was given at Bethany to honor Jesus.
They will see the smoke rising as Babylon burns
But he did not go in
In the same way only the Spirit of God knows Gods thoughts
I would like to learn just one thing from you Did you receive the Holy Spirit by obeying the law Or did you receive the Spirit by believing what you heard
and brought him first to Annas
I am happy because you have joined me in spreading the good news You have done so from the first day until now
Follow what you heard from me as the pattern of true teaching
They think they have a chance to be considered equal with us.
He placed his hands on each one and healed them.
A change of the priestly system requires a change of law
Get Mark and bring him with you He helps me in my work for the Lord
But someone will say, “You have faith. I do good deeds.”
At that time people will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud He will come with power and great glory
He spoke with great power He taught the truth about Jesus
Brothers and sisters, remain strong in the faith.
But Jesus answered, “Stop this!” And he touched the man’s ear and healed him.
Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life It was as clear as crystal It flowed from the throne of God and of the Lamb
languages
He has been a witness to the truth
But people are not judged for sin when there is no law
Dont you know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit
It is shameful even to talk about what people who don’t obey do in secret.
I can swim.
The Gentiles will put their hope in him
They came and filled both boats so full that they began to sink.
You act like youre teaching little children
be joined to his wife
The child’s father and mother were amazed at what was said about him.
Or suppose he asks for an egg Which of you will give him a scorpion
Keep an eye on anyone who doesnt obey the teachings in our letter
Then Peter took him by the right hand and helped him up. At once the man’s feet and ankles became strong.
When he saw the man, he passed by on the other side.
If you say or do things that harm one another, watch out! You could end up destroying one another.
But whoever speaks evil things against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven Their guilt will last forever
When we were safe on shore we found out that the island was called Malta
He wants all of you to learn to control your own bodies You must live in a way that is holy You must live with honor
Many will come in my name They will claim I am the Messiah They will fool many people
My dear brothers and sisters, pay attention to what I say. Everyone should be quick to listen. But they should be slow to speak. They should be slow to get angry.
Be dressed and ready to serve
The men who lived there recognized Jesus. So they sent a message all over the nearby countryside. People brought all those who were sick to Jesus.
They will do things like that because they do not know the Father or me
But be encouraged!
Anyone who enters through me will be saved
At one time you were separated from God
Now Jesus is Prince and Savior God has proved this by giving Jesus a place of honor with him He did it to turn Israel away from their sins and forgive them
What Im about to tell you is true A time is coming for me to give life In fact it has already begun
Being uncircumcised means nothing Doing what God commands is what counts
He taught them many things using stories In his teaching he said
Disabled people walk.
He saw one of them being treated badly by an Egyptian.
But anyone who drinks the water I give them will never be thirsty.
The benefit you gain leads to holy living
Demas has deserted me. He has gone to Thessalonica. He left me because he loved this world. Crescens has gone to Galatia. Titus has gone to Dalmatia.
But those who had the good news announced to them earlier didn’t go in. That’s because they didn’t obey.
All I have is yours, and all you have is mine.
But a donkey corrected him for the wrong he did. Animals don’t speak. But the donkey spoke with a human voice. It tried to stop the prophet from doing a very dumb thing.
Then a man named Jairus came. He was a synagogue leader. He fell at Jesus’ feet and begged Jesus to come to his house.
He circumcised Isaac eight days after he was born.
I have a lot to write to you
You foolish person!
I threw away my shoes
The beast and the ten horns you saw will hate the prostitute
Are we beginning to praise ourselves again  Some people need letters that speak well of them Do we need those kinds of letters either to you or from you
Paul and Barnabas told them all these things But they had trouble keeping the crowd from offering sacrifices to them
But the Father does not change like these shadows
Brothers and sisters, I don’t consider that I have taken hold of it yet.
The disciples did so, and everyone sat down.
Some people may not welcome you or listen to your words If they dont leave that home or town and shake the dust off your feet
Large numbers of Jews and Greeks became believers
He didn’t dare to look.
There must not be any bad language or foolish talk or dirty jokes They are out of place
There is only one God
Keep an eye on anyone who doesn’t obey the teachings in our letter. Don’t have anything to do with that person. Then they will feel ashamed.
Jesus Heals a Dead Girl and a Suffering Woman
In the same way our bragging about you to Titus has also turned out to be true
But we had to celebrate and be glad. This brother of yours was dead. And now he is alive again. He was lost. And now he is found.’ ”
All the widows stood around him crying.
I’m like a gate.
Jesus told his disciples another story He said There was a rich man who had a manager Some said that the manager was wasting what the rich man owned
But Ill give you what I do have
But Jesus knew what they were thinking. He spoke to the man who had the weak and twisted hand. “Get up and stand in front of everyone,” he said. So the man got up and stood there.
Pauls Vision and His Painful Problem
Daughters-in-law will be against their mothers-in-law
The songs of musicians will never be heard in you again
Those Israelites who were chosen did receive it
In the same way rich people will fade away
Rachel is crying over her children.
And you have not let me down.
One of the beast’s heads seemed to have had a deadly wound.
Living for God
It is kind
Im being held in chains because of the good news
The disciples James and John saw this.
Gone will be the music of harps flutes and trumpets
Everything they do is done for others to see On their foreheads and arms they wear little boxes that hold Scripture verses They make the boxes very wide And they make the tassels on their coats very long
Those who have preached the good news to you have told you these things
That is why I did not even think I was fit to come to you. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed.
Peters actions were not honest and other Jews in Antioch joined him Even Barnabas was led astray
After a long time the master of those slaves returned He wanted to collect all the money they had earned
Once you were slaves of sin At that time right living did not control you
Suppose someone forces you to go one mile Go two miles with them
But the sheep have not listened to them
No one among your relatives has that name
Jesus Talks With a Woman From Samaria
The dead will hear the voice of the Son of God Those who hear it will live
And may you know his love, even though it can’t be known completely. Then you will be filled with everything God has for you.
So he chose two of them
Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last.
God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. Anyone who believes in him will not die but will have eternal life.
Go to the village ahead of you As soon as you get there you will find a donkeys colt tied up No one has ever ridden it Untie it and bring it here
In the same way, every good tree bears good fruit. But a bad tree bears bad fruit.
The hour has come for God to judge.
But there is a judge for anyone who does not accept me and my words
We didn’t give in to them for a moment.
Now then, who are you to judge your brother or sister? Why do you act like you’re better than they are? We will all stand in God’s courtroom to be judged.
Wake up
On that day fire will destroy the heavens
Matthias was chosen
Women received back their dead. The dead were raised to life again.
”Mary’s Song
There in front of me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it.
While we live in this tent of ours we groan under our heavy load We dont want to be naked
Help us to be very bold when we speak your word.
I have no one else like Timothy He will truly care about how you are doing
We also pray that you will receive glory through what he has done
This is because the Father loves the Son The Father shows him everything he does
Jesus answered, “People who have had a bath need to wash only their feet.
How was the fishing?
You will be sad but your sadness will turn into joy
So Peter and the other disciple started out for the tomb.
God has placed them under his judgment.
It is the same with faith If it doesnt cause us to do something its dead
We were comforted not only when he came but also by the comfort you had given him. He told us how much you longed for me. He told us about your deep sadness and concern for me. That made my joy greater than ever.
Wake up! Strengthen what is left, or it will die.
and no human mind has known
But suppose you do suffer for doing what is right. Even then you will be blessed.
I belong to God and serve him. Last night his angel stood beside me.
I wish I could swim
They were amazed and full of fear They asked one another Who is this He commands even the winds and the waves and they obey him
Then I heard a loud voice in heaven. It said,
Crowds even gathered from the towns around Jerusalem They brought their sick people They also brought those who were suffering because of evil spirits
I was circumcised on the eighth day.
Be careful Jesus said to them Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees
But they didn’t see anything unusual happen to him. So they changed their minds.
The woman was dressed in purple and bright red.
I was pretty hungry
Just like animals, these people too will die.
Many people were made sinners because one man did not obey. But one man did obey. That is why many people will be made right with God.
His head was brought in on a big plate and given to the girl. She then carried it to her mother.
God the Father gave him honor and glory The voice of the Majestic Glory came to him It said This is my Son and I love him I am very pleased with him
mercy peace
“The one who comes from above is above everything. The one who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks like someone from the earth. The one who comes from heaven is above everything.
Character produces hope.
You must also be witnesses about me. That’s because you have been with me from the beginning.
Barnabas and Saul were sent on their way by the Holy Spirit They went down to Seleucia
Apollos had been taught the way of the Lord
But they laughed at him.
We also know that the law isn’t made for godly people.
They asked Then why did Moses command that a man can give his wife a letter of divorce and send her away
They will be out of control.
Dont desire to commit sexual sins like people who dont know God
It wasnt possible for death to keep its hold on Jesus
At once the man’s feet and ankles became strong.
It will also show the world that you have loved those you gave me,
You know that the Lord will give each person a reward. He will give it to them in keeping with the good they do. It doesn’t matter whether they are a slave or not.
God who looks into our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit
So they speak from the world’s point of view.
Philemon we are sending you this letter You are our dear friend You work together with us
They found me doing this in the temple courtyard I had already been made pure and clean in the usual way
Peter answered May your money be destroyed with you
Now may God supply you with everything good. Then you can do what he wants.
Jesus answered Keep watch Be careful that no one fools you
He answered, “I have already told you. But you didn’t listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you want to become his disciples too?”
There are many people who oppose me
They had Peter and John brought to them. They wanted to question them. “By what power did you do this?” they asked. “And through whose name?”
But God’s word is not held back by chains.
Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit.
One of the tewelve disciples went to the chief priests. His name was Judas Iscariot.
Finally Paul became upset Turning around he spoke to the spirit that was in her In the name of Jesus Christ he said I command you to come out of her
The truth about God is plain to them God has made it plain
You can’t do that very little thing. So why worry about the rest?
Jacob’s well was there. Jesus was tired from the journey. So he sat down by the well. It was about noon.
Addi was the son of Cosam.
But I know that even now God will give you anything you ask for
Matthias was chosen.
Dont be afraid of those who kill the body but cant do any more than that
Anyone who has been stealing must never steal again. Instead, they must work.
Then everyone who believes may have eternal life in him
I am with you
Standing beside the sea were those who had won the battle over the beast
God is fair
Because you are his child God gives you the rights of those who are his children
So he called one of the servants He asked him what was going on
Isnt this the carpenter Isnt this Marys son Isnt this the brother of James Joseph Judas and Simon Arent his sisters here with us They were not pleased with him at all
Earlier I broke five loaves for the five thousend How many baskets of pieces did you pick up
When you come, bring my coat. I left it with Carpus at Troas.
He jumped to his feet and began to walk
The Word was already here from the beginning
He also became more and more pleasing to God and to people.
I will even spend myself
Then Pilate asked him, “Don’t you hear the charges they are bringing against you?”
Who can live through it?”
You will look for me
Dear woman why are you telling me about this Jesus replied
He will gather the wheat into his barn
The Samaritan woman said to him, “You are a Jew. I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink?” She said this because Jews don’t have anything to do with Samaritans.
An angel of the Lord spoke to Philip Go south to the desert road he said Its the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza
In his very nature he was God.
“So keep watch! You do not know when the owner of the house will come back. It may be in the evening or at midnight. It may be when the rooster crows or at dawn.
Gods whole nature is living in Christ in human form
It is written I believed and so I have spoken
You should also want the gifts the Holy Spirit gives. Most of all, you should want the gift of prophecy.
But I have prayed for you, Simon. I have prayed that your faith will not fail. When you have turned back, help your brothers to be strong.”
So one mans sin brought guilt to all people In the same way one right act made people right with God That one right act gave life to all people
How can you say to your friend, ‘Let me take the bit of sawdust out of your eye’?
Many people went out to meet him. They had heard that he had done this sign.
they caught a large number of fish.
Now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father.”
He planned to bring both Jews and Gentiles back to God as one body He planned to do this through the cross
But it was Solomon who built the temple for God
He has set a day when he will judge the world fairly. He has appointed a man to be its judge. God has proved this to everyone by raising that man from the dead.”
But I would rather have you prophesy.
God did this so that people would seek him. And perhaps they would reach out for him and find him. They would find him even though he is not far from any of us.
They want to sleep with them. They never stop sinning.
Even more will be asked of the person who is supposed to take care of much.
He too was killed
Do you owe respect Then give it
Others should decide if what is being said is true.
The sixth angel blew his trumpet Then I heard a voice coming from the four corners of the golden altar The altar stands in front of God
God accepted Abrahams faith and so his faith made him right with God
I have brought you glory on earth I have finished the work you gave me to do
“A voice is heard in Ramah.It’s the sound of crying and deep sadness.
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes There will be no more death  And there will be no more sadness There will be no more crying or pain Things are no longer the way they used to be
They are the only Jews who have worked together with me for Gods kingdom
I think he won't come.
now I can see
Many people came to him. They said, “John never performed a sign.
Then the king said to his slaves The wedding dinner is ready But those I invited were not fit to come
And it is for anything else that is the opposite of true teaching.
Serving me is easy and my load is light
I will be their God, and they will be my children.
Inside it the wooden chest called the ark of his covenant could be seen.
I have worked much harder.
Instead put on the Lord Jesus Christ as if he were your clothing Dont think about how to satisfy sinful desires
And she spoke about the child to all who were looking forward to the time when Jerusalem would be set free.
I asked Titus to go to you And I sent our brother with him Titus didnt take advantage of you did he Didnt we walk in the same footsteps by the same Spirit
When the Friend comes to help you, he will be a witness about me.
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me. The bowls were filled with the seven last plagues.
It is made for those who break the law It is for those who refuse to obey
All of you should honor marriage
But they didn’t use force. They were afraid the people would kill them by throwing stones at them.
The high priest enters the Most Holy Room every year He enters with blood that is not his own But Christ did not enter heaven to offer himself again and again
What we are suffering now is nothing compared with our future glory
Then they sang a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives
told me that you are faithful to the truth. They told me that you continue to live by it. This news gave me great joy.
Doesnt the fact that we are wrong prove more clearly that God is right Then what can we say
Barnabas sold a field he owned He brought the money from the sale He put it down at the apostles feet
they should do it as one speaking Gods words
Then Thomas who was also called Didymus spoke to the rest of the disciples Let us go also he said Then we can die with Jesus
Then no one will be able to speak evil things against God’s word.
God has remembered her crimes
Then after fourteen years, I went up again to Jerusalem. This time I went with Barnabas.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Before the rooster crows, you will say three times that you don’t know me!
Every house is built by someone
But suppose that married woman sleeps with another man while her husband is still alive
Teach slaves to obey their masters in everything they do.
But those who think they belong in the kingdom will be thrown outside, into the darkness. There they will weep and grind their teeth.”
In the same way, our bragging about you to Titus has also turned out to be true.
Greet Philologus, Julia, Nereus and his sister. Greet Olympas and all of the Lord’s people who are with them.
Because of the authority Christ has given me I could be bold I could order you to do what you should do anyway
And suppose you lend money to those who can pay you back. Should anyone praise you for that? Even a sinner lends to sinners, expecting them to pay everything back.
He said to another man, “Follow me.”
The fourth angel blew his trumpet. Then a third of the sun was struck. A third of the moon was struck. A third of the stars were struck. So a third of each of them turned dark. Then a third of the day had no light. The same thing happened to a third of the night.
When I went to Jerusalem, the Jewish chief priests and the elders brought charges against the man. They wanted him to be found guilty.
They held the name of the Lord Jesus in high honor
as we also forgive everyone who sins against us
They are suggesting practices that are against Roman law These are practices we cant accept or take part in
To knowledge add the ability to control yourselves
But the crowds learned about it and followed Jesus.
They were written also for us
After a little while those standing there went up to Peter You must be one of them they said The way you talk gives you away
We tried to stop him because he is not one of us
But they should be slow to speak.
But suppose another priest like Melchizedek appears Then what we have said is even more clear
They went across the Sea of Galilee to the area of the Gerasenes
It read
The Lord turned and looked right at Peter. Then Peter remembered what the Lord had spoken to him. “The rooster will crow today,” Jesus had said. “Before it does, you will say three times that you don’t know me.”
And he allowed it
But now God has shown us his saving power without the help of the law. But the Law and the Prophets tell us about this.
But then they realized that he was a Jew. So they all shouted the same thing for about two hours. “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” they yelled.
The disciples returned They told Jesus what they had done Then he took them with him
The third angel blew his trumpet Then a great star fell from the sky It looked like a blazing torch It fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water
He was the father-in-law of Caiaphas the high priest at that time
They cried out in a loud voice,
You shouldn’t give because you are forced to. God loves a cheerful giver.
May the Lord give you strength in your hearts
But what if these things dont describe someone at all Then that person cant see very well In fact they are blind They have forgotten that their past sins have been washed away
How terrible it will be for those living on the earth!
Command the rich to do what is good Tell them to be rich in doing good things They must give freely They must be willing to share
I'll drive to Detroit.
During that time a crowd of many thousands had gathered. There were so many people that they were stepping on one another.
When all of them had enough to eat, Jesus spoke to his disciples.
Its true that I havent been trained as a speaker But I do have knowledge Ive made that very clear to you in every way
Then Peter began to speak. “I now realize how true it is that God treats everyone the same,” he said.
When John came, he didn’t eat or drink as you do. And people say, ‘He has a demon.’
Some wanted to arrest him.
But just say the word and my servant will be healed
Think about what Im saying
The law judges you because you have broken it.
If we know that God hears what we ask for we know that we have it
But a son belongs to the family forever
Even the message God spoke through angels had to be obeyed Every time people broke the Law they were punished Every time they didnt obey they were punished
I do not mean that God’s word has failed.
Make sure that you get your full reward
Not at all We have already claimed that Jews and Gentiles are sinners Everyone is under the power of sin
We tried to stop him, because he is not one of us.
Here are some examples. Certain objects make sounds. Take a flute or a harp. No one will know what the tune is unless different notes are played.
the Ninevites will prove that those people are guilty The men of Nineveh turned away from their sins when Jonah preached to them
So the temple authorities arrested Peter and John
God called this covenant new
God has commanded us to believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ. He has also commanded us to love one another.
They might turn to the Lord, and then he would heal them.’
Gentiles do not have the law. Sometimes they just naturally do what the law requires.
Think about how far you have fallen! Turn away from your sins. Do the things you did at first. If you don’t, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place.
There the servant of a Roman commander was sick and about to die. His master thought highly of him.
The Spirit led him into the temple courtyard
The person who says no to the Son doesn’t belong to the Father.
Then I will come to you with joy just as God has planned. We will be renewed by being together.
I tell you this On judgment day it will be easier for Sodom than for that town
In the same way, those who feed on me will live because of me.
Jesus said to them, “What I’m about to tell you is true. It is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven. It is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.
Tychicus will tell you all the news about me
There were rumblings
I can speak English
Soon Ill be going there myself
Two blind men were sitting by the side of the road. They heard that Jesus was going by. So they shouted, “Lord! Son of David! Have mercy on us!”
It is planted as an earthly body. But it is raised as a spiritual body.
Bless those who call down curses on you
Are we out of our minds as some people say If so it is because we want to serve God Does what we say make sense If so it is because we want to serve you
We work together to serve God. You are like God’s field. You are like his building.
“The Lamb, who was put to death, is worthy!
The Pharisees and Sadducees came to test Jesus They asked him to show them a sign from heaven
The hair on his head was white like wool as white as snow His eyes were like a blazing fire
I do not have a cat
Paul looked straight at the Sanhedrin.
I love you because of the truth.
The prayer offered by those who have faith will make the sick person well.
Everyone who asks will receive The one who searches will find The door will be opened to the one who knocks
Im afraid that when I come again my God will put me to shame in front of you
Can a demon open the eyes of someone who is blind
The seed on rocky ground stands for those who hear the message and receive it with joy
She could fly to the place prepared for her in the desert There she would be taken care of for three and a half years She would be out of the serpents reach
He is staying with another Simon, a man who works with leather. His house is by the sea.”
You have no part or share in this holy work. Your heart is not right with God.
But if we love one another God lives in us
You trust in the law
God’s New Family of Jews and Gentiles
What I’m about to tell you is true.
work with your hands, just as we told you to.
The people will celebrate by sending one another gifts
“Have any of the rulers or Pharisees believed in him?
Here is the letter the officer wrote.
Follow what you heard from me as the pattern of true teaching.
“My soul is troubled.
We should keep the peace
If anyone wants to argue about this, we don’t have any other practice. And God’s churches don’t either.
comfort your hearts. May they make you strong in every good thing you do and say?
Then the people asked for a king. He gave them Saul, son of Kish. Saul was from the tribe of Benjamin. He ruled for  years.
Fire will destroy everything in them.
When you were baptized, you were buried together with Christ. And you were raised to life together with him when you were baptized. You were raised to life by believing in God’s work. God himself raised Jesus from the dead.
These and all other commands are included in one command.
Then Jesus said, “Whoever has ears should listen.”
That makes me very glad.
‘Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches. Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will let that person eat from the tree of life in God’s paradise.’
Some of the believers from Caesarea went with us.
He has become God’s wisdom for us. He makes us right with God. He makes us holy and sets us free.
Jesus replied, “Let’s go somewhere else. I want to go to the nearby towns. I must preach there also. That is why I have come.”
Whoever belongs to the Son has life
Deep inside me I find joy in God’s law.
So Jesus went with him
What can we do with these men they asked
It’s true that I haven’t been trained as a speaker. But I do have knowledge.
The Lord will give each of them a reward for their work
His father was sick in bed. The man suffered from fever and dysentery. So Paul went in to see him. Paul prayed for him. He placed his hands on him and healed him.
Zerubbabel was the father of Abihud.Abihud was the father of Eliakim.Eliakim was the father of Azor.
His grace made us right with God. So now we have received the hope of eternal life as God’s children.
Some people brought little children to Jesus They wanted him to place his hands on the children and pray for them But the disciples told them not to do it
There were others who were made to suffer greatly But they refused to be set free
So don’t be ashamed of the message about our Lord. And don’t be ashamed of me, his prisoner. Instead, join with me as I suffer for the good news. God’s power will help us do that.
and brought him first to Annas.
So he sent for ten of his slaves He gave them each about three months pay Put this money to work until I come back he said
You are going to go blind.
Going on from that place, Jesus went into their synagogue.
So whoever opposes the authorities opposes leaders whom God has appointed Those who do that will be judged
Then some of our friends went to the tomb. They saw it was empty, just as the women had said. They didn’t see Jesus’ body there.”
In the same way when you see all these things happening you know that the end is near It is right at the door
Why are you thinking these things in your hearts
Akeldama means the Field of Blood
So Judas went to Jesus at once He said Greetings Rabbi And he kissed him
We know how he does his evil work.
“Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am. I want them to see my glory, the glory you have given me. You gave it to me because you loved me before the world was created.
They crossed over the lake and landed at Gennesaret
When he came out, he could not speak to them. They realized he had seen a vision in the temple.
Because of Lazarus many of the Jews were starting to follow JesusThey were believing in him
Peter said many other things to warn them. He begged them, “Save yourselves from these evil people.”
When I heard this, I fell at his feet to worship him.
Pilate spoke to them for the third time Why he asked What wrong has this man done I have found no reason to have him put to death So I will just have him whipped and let him go
Then Jesus told him, “Because you have seen me, you have believed.
He needs an umbrella.
The Jews answered Jesus Arent we right when we say you are a Samaritan
the Beginning and the End
If your brother or sister sins against you go to them Tell them what they did wrong Keep it between the two of you If they listen to you you have won them back
If their plans and actions only come from people, they will fail.
Besides that, I don’t remember if I baptized anyone else.
If it is teaching then teach
When a person works, their pay is not considered a gift. It is owed to them.
The disciples were still talking about this when Jesus himself suddenly stood among them. He said, “May you have peace!”
Why are you doing that if you aren’t Elijah or the Prophet we’ve been expecting?”
The fourth was made out of emerald.
He said They are the ones who have come out of the time of terrible suffering
When he arrived he found some believers there
And anyone who welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me
It is written,
You longed for evil things
Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life. It was as clear as crystal. It flowed from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
How terrible How terrible it is for you great city
Do not be joined to unbelievers What do right and wrong have in common Can light and darkness be friends
All of Abraham’s children will certainly receive the promise.
They are like a man who builds a house.
They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
If a kingdom fights against itself, it can’t stand.
His tewelve disciples were with him
The Jews grabbed Paul They were about to kill him
Was a man already circumcised when God chose him Then he should not become uncircumcised Was he uncircumcised when God chose him Then he should not be circumcised
They must not drink too much wine.
“I will destroy the wisdom of those who are wise.
All of you are children of the light
Your faith in God has also become known everywhere.
Whoever does not pick up their cross and follow me is not worthy of me
No! But what is sacrificed by those who worship statues of gods is really sacrificed to demons. It is not sacrificed to God. I don’t want you to be sharing with demons.
Then in secret they talked some men into lying about Stephen. They said, “We heard Stephen speak evil things against Moses and against God.”
And then he could pay for the sins of the people by dying for them
There must not be any bad language or foolish talk or dirty jokes. They are out of place.
When you were baptized, you were buried together with Christ.
I and the Father are one
Asa was the father of JehoshaphatJehoshaphat was the father of JehoramJehoram was the father of Uzziah
That’s because he is the most powerful Lord of all and the greatest King of all.
Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches.’
Then he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples were very happy when they saw the Lord.
Our hope is certain. It is something for the soul to hold on to.
The one with the two bags of gold earned two more
But the ship hit a sandbar.
What I’m about to tell you is true. What she has done will be told anywhere this good news is preached all over the world. It will be told in memory of her.”
Now the Lord is the Holy Spirit.
We and the Lord were your examples You followed us You welcomed our message even when you were suffering terribly You welcomed it with the joy the Holy Spirit gives
You dont let other people tell you what to do or say
A thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy
Peter sent them all out of the room.
Jesus Fulfills the Law
No one in the field should go back to get their coat
Some in the crowd shouted one thing some another
They will ask,
Jesus replied I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven
The people were all filled with wonder and praised God A great prophet has appeared among us
He said Suppose one of you has  sheep and loses one of them Wont he leave the  in the open country Wont he go and look for the one lost sheep until he finds it
Every island ran away The mountains could not be found
the one who is right with God will live by faith
The church was strengthened and grew larger.
Now I want to say something about virgins I have no direct command from the Lord
Starting from the beginning, Peter told them the whole story.
He made a promise in the name of the God who lives for ever and ever. This is the God who created the sky, earth and sea and all that is in them. The angel said, “There will be no more waiting!
Gentiles do not have the law Sometimes they just naturally do what the law requires
They must keep their lips from telling lies
So he went. He did it even though he didn’t know where he was going.
Thyatira
He lived there in tents. So did Isaac and Jacob. They received the same promise he did.
We have the right to claim to be Gods children they objected
But Peter said he had not been with him Woman I dont know him he said
We lived that way most of all when we were dealing with you.
Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood has eternal life. I will raise them up on the last day.
Let us be joyful and glad!
The time will come when you will say, ‘Blessed are the women who can’t have children! Blessed are those who never gave birth or nursed babies!’
He will punish those who don’t know God. He will punish those who don’t obey the good news about our Lord Jesus.
But they did not understand what he meant by that.
They beat him up in front of the governor. But Gallio didn’t care at all.
Now they are telling our people about Jesus
The Lord will help you understand what all of it means.
Am I trying to please people
Dont you believe that I am in the Father Dont you believe that the Father is in me
Who can separate us from Christs love
Grab this.
Jesus ordered the demon to leave the boy, and it came out of him. He was healed at that moment.
Your kingdom will be ruled by justice
“Those who were not told about him will understand.
People have tamed all kinds of wild animals, birds, reptiles and sea creatures. And they still tame them.
Her sickness had lasted for twelve years.
Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven. He was wearing a cloud like a robe. There was a rainbow above his head. His face was like the sun. His legs were like pillars of fire.
He gave himself to pay for the sins of all people. We have been told this message at just the right time.
His face was like the sun His legs were like pillars of fire
Then Jesus ordered him, “Don’t tellanyone.
That is what Scripture means where it says, “Abraham believed God. God accepted Abraham because he believed. So his faith made him right with God.”And that’s not all. God called Abraham his friend.
An enemy did this he repliedThe slaves asked him Do you want us to go and pull up the weeds
They should agree that what I am writing to you is the Lord’s command.
Or should we look for someone else
They praise others to get what they want
Those who give themselves over to sexual sins are lost
Here are the words of Jesus who is the Amen What he speaks is faithful and true He rules over what God has created He says
You have been given directions about him
There were seven brothers. The first one got married. He died without leaving any children.
“They have taken my Lord away,” she said.
Thats because it has been given to the Gentiles
“I am Gabriel. I serve God.
Scripture says The two will become one
Why What wrong has he done asked Pilate
Then the children dont have to pay Jesus said to him
We told you about the time our Lord Jesus Christ came with power But we didnt make up clever stories when we told you about it
Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man. “I am willing to do it,” he said. “Be ‘clean’!” Right away the man was healed of his skin disease.
They do not know how to live in peace
God will bring Jesus back at a time that pleases him God is the blessed and only Ruler He is the greatest King of all He is the most powerful Lord of all
But the ship hit a sandbar
Here is what we know No one is made right with God by obeying the law It is by believing in Jesus Christ
But suppose they don’t do them. By not doing these good deeds, they sin.
But Jesus ordered the evil spirit to leave the boy.
The Son of Man will come at an hour when you don’t expect him.”
So he met us there We took him on board and went on to Mitylene
Just as lambs are silent while their wool is being cut off
It is written They will rule them with an iron scepter
We have been told this message at just the right time
They kept looking for Jesus as they stood in the temple courtyard They asked one another What do you think
I can barely see you
He appointed them to be saved in keeping with his purpose
Jesus answered him, “Simon, I have something to tell you.”
They claim to know God. But their actions show they don’t know him. They are hated by God. They refuse to obey him. They aren’t fit to do anything good.
You know what happened earlier in the city of Philippi. We suffered, and people treated us very badly there. But God gave us the boldness to tell you his good news. We preached to you even when people strongly opposed us.
I begged your disciples to drive it out. But they couldn’t do it.”
Here is how you can recognize the Spirit of God
But we must share in his sufferings if we want to share in his glory
God’s Wisdom Through the Holy Spirit
Suppose you had  believers in Christ watching over you You still wouldnt have many fathers I became your father by serving Christ Jesus and telling you the good news
As a result, the community is in trouble።
You didn’t recognize the time when God came to you. So your enemies will smash you to the ground. They will destroy you and all the people inside your walls. They will not leave one stone on top of another.”
Gentiles did not look for a way to be right with God.
They left the crowd behind And they took him along in a boat just as he was There were also other boats with him
The stars in the sky fell to earth They dropped like figs from a tree shaken by a strong wind
The time when I will leave is near
People Who Can’t See the Truth
And in some ways I believe it.
Be sure that no one misses out on Gods grace See to it that a bitter plant doesnt grow up
And Sarah had faith. So God made it possible for her to become a mother.
So God does what he wants to do He shows mercy to one person and makes another stubborn
And he destroyed seven nations in Canaan. Then he gave the land to his people as their rightful share.
They came down the mountain. On the way down, Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone what they had seen. He told them to wait until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.
“What can I compare today’s people to? They are like children sitting in the markets and calling out to others. They say,
Every Sabbath day he went to the synagogue He was trying to get both Jews and Greeks to believe in the Lord
Because of the commandment sin became totally sinful
We dont twist Gods word
Because of what God has done, you belong to Christ Jesus. He has become God’s wisdom for us. He makes us right with God. He makes us holy and sets us free.
In a vision Saul has seen a man come and place his hands on him That mans name is Ananias In the vision Ananias placed his hands on Saul so he could see again
The Holy Spirit told me not to let anything keep me from going with them. These six brothers here went with me. We entered the man’s house.
I will strike her children dead. Then all the churches will know that I search hearts and minds. I will pay each of you back for what you have done.
All we can do is to wait in fear for God to judge. His blazing fire will burn up his enemies.
On their way out of the city they met a man from Cyrene His name was Simon They forced him to carry the cross
Jesus said, “‘do not murder. Do not commit adultery. Do not steal. Do not be a false witness.
That’s how we should live as we wait for the blessed hope God has given us. We are waiting for Jesus Christ to appear in his glory. He is our great God and Savior.
After this the Lord appointed sevety two others
Jesus healed many of them They had all kinds of sicknesses He also drove out many demons But he would not let the demons speak because they knew who he was
If you believe you will receive what you ask for when you pray
Do your best to please God. Be a worker who doesn’t need to be ashamed. Teach the message of truth correctly.
Don’t make trouble.
‘Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches. Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin.
God wants you to be made holy He wants you to stay away from sexual sins
So he gave us new life because of what Christ has done. He gave us life even when we were dead in sin. God’s grace has saved you.
He was amazed by the great signs and miracles he saw
The Roman commander and those guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened They were terrified They exclaimed He was surely the Son of God
Go! Tell his disciples and Peter, ‘He is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. It will be just as he told you.’ ”
He will also come a second time
The beast who used to exist
“Watch out for false prophets. They come to you pretending to be sheep. But on the inside they are hungry wolves.
The next day Paul took the men with him. They all made themselves pure and “clean” in the usual way. Then Paul went to the temple.
The sky rolled back like a scroll.
God has shown me amazing and wonderful things. People should not think more of me because of it. So I wouldn’t become proud of myself, I was given a problem. This problem caused pain in my body. It is a messenger from Satan to make me suffer.
This story has spread all around among the Jews to this day.
No Lord I will not Peter replied
The voice spoke to the sixth angel who had the trumpet.
At that time Jesus healed many people They had illnesses sicknesses and evil spirits
Joseph had faith So he spoke to the people of Israel about how they would leave Egypt someday When his death was near he spoke about where to bury his bones
Have faith in God Jesus said
Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring
You are still following the ways of the world Some of you are jealous Some of you argue So arent you following the ways of the world Arent you acting like ordinary human beings
Then Paul went upstairs again. He broke bread and ate with them.
Would you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes? Would you say, “Here’s a good seat for you”? Would you say to the poor man, “You stand there”? Or “Sit on the floor by my feet”?
Do not make God’s Holy Spirit mourn. The Holy Spirit is the proof that you belong to God. And the Spirit is the proof that God will set you completely free.
Every eye will see himEven those who pierced him will see him
Jesus replied They dont need to go away You give them something to eat
Large crowds gathered around him So he got into a boat and sat down All the people stood on the shore
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast
Peter answered, “May your money be destroyed with you!
Once more Jesus put his hands on the man’s eyes. Then his eyes were opened so that he could see again. He saw everything clearly.
Then that person is proud and doesn’t understand anything.
The Lord will save me from every evil attack He will bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom Give him glory for ever and ever Amen
Suppose someone takes your coat Dont stop them from taking your shirt as well
Jesus answered, “Unless I wash you, you can’t share life with me.”
This kept the winds from blowing on the land or the sea or on any tree.
To others he gives the power to do miracles
You must help us by praying for us. Then many people will give thanks because of what will happen to us. They will thank God for his kindness to us in answer to the prayers of many.
But the word of the Lord lasts forever.”
Here is the law I find working in me.
Your gifts meet the needs of the Lord’s people. And that’s not all.
Pilate wanted to let Jesus go So he made an appeal to the crowd again
Unless I go away the Friend will not come to help you
Jesus Is Taken to the Sanhedrin
So the law is holy The commandment also is holy and right and good
Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give You shouldnt give if you dont want to You shouldnt give because you are forced to God loves a cheerful giver
He told them, “Don’t take anything for the journey. Do not take a walking stick or a bag. Do not take any bread, money or extra clothes.
So let us come near to God with a sincere heart
Jesus died for us. Some will be alive when he comes. Others will be dead. Either way, we will live together with him.
All the others are looking out for their own interests. They are not looking out for the interests of Jesus Christ.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who will not receive God’s kingdom like a little child will never enter it.”
Now you will tell everyone about what you have seen and heard
This is the God who created the sky,
There Christ sits far above all who rule and have authority. He also sits far above all powers and kings.
It is one of you Jesus replied It is the one who dips bread into the bowl with me
I know that you dont have much strength
They came to him and said Teacher we know that you are a man of honor
Tall grass waving in the wind?
He has committed crimes they replied If he hadnt we would not have handed him over to you
He is the one written about in Scripture. It says,“ ‘I will send my messenger ahead of you.He will prepare your way for you.’
God was with him.
The angel struck Peter on his side Peter woke up Quick the angel said
Who are you they asked
You were running a good race Who has kept you from obeying the truth
The Jews answered Jesus, “Aren’t we right when we say you are a Samaritan? Aren’t you controlled by a demon?”
He wants all people to be saved. He wants them to come to know the truth.
The first beast was the one who had been wounded by a sword and still lived.
Did God turn his back on his people?
From the tribe of Benjamin tewelve thousend
Never again will it be found
He said, “They will never enjoy the rest I planned for them.”
Brothers and sisters I want you to know about the gifts of the Holy Spirit
Be kind
The Holy Spirit says,
Pilate wanted to satisfy the crowd So he let Barabbas go free He ordered that Jesus be whipped Then he handed him over to be nailed to a cross
I thank my God every time I remember you
On the first day of the week we met to break bread and eat together
As soon as it was night, the believers sent Paul and Silas away to Berea. When they arrived, they went to the Jewish synagogue.
Stop always wanting more and more
The reason my Father loves me is that I give up my life
That’s because Adam was made first.
Lead a life of love, just as Christ did. He loved us. He gave himself up for us. He was a sweet-smelling offering and sacrifice to God.
Then the Jewish leaders took Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace of the Roman governor
In other words it is not a part of this creation
Prophecy never came simply because a prophet wanted it to
You know that the first believers in Achaia were from the family of Stephanas. They have spent all their time serving the Lord’s people. Brothers and sisters, I am asking you
An angel from heaven appeared to Jesus and gave him strength
They found me doing this in the temple courtyard. I had already been made pure and ‘clean’ in the usual way.
They are an example of how to be patient when you suffer.
I wanted to know why they were bringing charges against him. So I brought him to their Sanhedrin.
The Day of the Lord Is Coming
Scripture says Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw
In short, it implies that God has learned Adam as his son።
He did it so you could share in his nature
God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong.
First, the name Melchizedek means “king of what is right.
Come home.
In the same way good works are easy to see
“How many loaves do you have?” Jesus asked. “Go and see.”
There we were going to take Paul on board He had planned it this way because he wanted to go to Assos by land
David also gave some to his men
Here is what Christ wants us to beg you to do. Come back to God!
Large numbers of people believed and turned to the Lord.
Judas was in charge of the money bag.
Not at all!
We are considered as sheep to be killed
Honor your father and mother  And love your neighbor as you love yourself
I am very proud of you
Peter asked her Tell me Is this the price you and Ananias sold the land forYes she said
So he said, “I will hear your case when those bringing charges against you get here.”
or hard times
Paul Longs to Visit Rome
Jesus sat down across from the place where people put their temple offerings He watched the crowd putting their money into the offering boxes Many rich people threw large amounts into them
So Paul motioned with his hand. Then he began to present his case.
But those who are taught the word should share all good things with their teacher.
There was a woman in that town who had lived a sinful life. She learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee’s house. So she came there with a special jar of perfume.
because God is love.
Worship God The Spirit of prophecy tells the truth about Jesus
And they will prophesy for one thousend two hundred sixity days. They will be dressed in the rough clothes people wear when they’re sad.”
Good night
When she saw Peter warming himself she looked closely at him
God is love.
They must be kind
I’m talking about the way you serve because you believe.
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
We agree with the law.
MATTHEW 
Do your best to come to me quickly.
That is also what God planned for them
The person who says no to the Son doesnt belong to the Father
This fellow Moses brought us up out of Egypt. But we don’t know what has happened to him!’
We know that God raised the Lord Jesus from the dead. And he will also raise us up with Jesus. And he will present both you and us to himself.
When morning came; he called for his disciples to come to him. He chose tewelve of them and made them apostles. Here are their names.
I command you in the sight of God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels.
Which one is easier
Isn’t it because of your sinful desires?
It was red like fire dark blue and yellow like sulfur
So I said goodbye to the believers at Troas and went on to Macedonia
There is only one God. When those who are circumcised believe in him, he makes them right with himself. Suppose those who are not circumcised believe in him. Then God also will make them right with himself.
Give to everyone who asks you. And if anyone takes what belongs to you, don’t ask to get it back.
Paul Gives Thanks for the Thessalonians’ Faith
Don’t you know that people who do wrong will not receive God’s kingdom?
I'm as old as he is.
So suppose someone knows the good deeds they should do But suppose they dont do them By not doing these good deeds they sin
Stop judging only by what you see. Judge in the right way.”
So they spoke evil things against the name of God who controlled these plagues
Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium They won the crowd over to their side
So those who preach the good news should also receive their living from their work That is what the Lord has commanded
Do not call anyone on earth father You have one Father and he is in heaven
The desires controlled by sin do not want what the Spirit delights in
May grace and peace be given to you.
The beast was given a mouth to brag and speak evil things against God. The beast was allowed to use its authority for  months.
he said. “Why have you come?”
Then Peter spoke up, “We have left everything to follow you!”
The Day and Hour Are Not Known
Peter went up to Jerusalem There the Jewish believers found fault with him
Their authority is like the authority I’ve received from my Father.
Even if we are not faithful
Is there anything else you want to bring up Settle it in a court of law
Peter and John were allowed to leave. They went back to their own people. They reported everything the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
the other has still not come.
They had also overcome its statue and the number of its name
They will rule on the earth
It includes sexual sins
He approached the town gate Just then a dead person was being carried out
But whoever loses their life for me and for the good news will save it.
He said to Simon Do you see this woman I came into your house
He is the Root of David.
But this widow keeps bothering me. So I will see that things are made right for her. If I don’t, she will someday come and attack me!’ ”
I said They will never enjoy the rest I planned for them
Rahab, the prostitute, had faith. So she welcomed the spies. That’s why she wasn’t killed with those who didn’t obey God.
My brothers and sisters,
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses their soul
And how can anyone preach without being sent?
His house is by the sea.”
You have some strange ideas we’ve never heard before. We would like to know what they mean.”
Then the devil led Jesus up to a high place In an instant he showed Jesus all the kingdoms of the world
So God again chose a certain day He named it today
I have a high fever.
The time came for this to be done. All who had gathered to worship were praying outside.
“Look! I am placing a stone in Zion.
He wanted the rulers and authorities in the heavenly world to come to know his great wisdom The church would make it known to them
They would find him even though he is not far from any of us.
In the Law, Moses commanded us to kill such women by throwing stones at them. Now what do you say?”
Joda was the son of Joanan
At one time you were dead in your sins Your desires controlled by sin were not circumcised
Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news. She said, “I have seen the Lord!”
So here is what we can always be certain about As long as we are at home in our bodies we are away from the Lord
It was decided that we would sail for Italy
But he took her by the hand and said, “My child, get up!”
Now Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard about him. They had heard that he was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John.
I don't get the joke.
Jesus said to them Keep watch Be careful that no one fools you
Before very long a wind blew down from the island It had the force of a hurricane It was called the Northeaster
They replied We have not received any letters from Judea about you
They listen, but they don’t really hear or understand.
The mind ruled by the power of sin is at war with God.
Right away Jesus made his disciples get into the boat. He had them go on ahead of him to Bethsaida. Then he sent the crowd away.
But the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders. They had commanded anyone who found out where Jesus was staying to report it. Then they could arrest him.
Then you can give glory to God with one mind and voice He is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ
In the sight of God we make our appeal to everyones sense of what is right and wrong
But now here are the kinds of things you must also get rid of. You must get rid of anger, rage, hate and lies. Let no dirty words come out of your mouths.
Then Peter remembered what Jesus had said The rooster will crow Jesus had told him Before it does you will say three times that you dont know me Peter went outside He broke down and cried
He told those who were selling doves Get these out of here
Pilate let Barabbas go free But he had Jesus whipped Then he handed him over to be nailed to a cross
You who belong to Christ are Abrahams seed
Written on them were the names of the tewelve apostles of the Lamb.
But when you plant the seed it grows It becomes the largest of all garden plants Its branches are so big that birds can rest in its shade
The brothers and sisters who are with me send greetings.
Mary asked the angel.
Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister.
Not at all Sin had to be recognized for what it really is
Let all the nations sing praises to him.”
The Boy Jesus at the Temple
Jesus was aware of this So he said to them Why are you bothering this woman She has done a beautiful thing to me
Now we who have believed enjoy that rest. God said,
I don’t do the good things I want to do.
You must pay attention to it
We dont want Satan to outsmart us We know how he does his evil work
I have spoken openly to the world Jesus replied
Jews and Gentiles alike planned to treat Paul and Barnabas badly. Their leaders agreed. They planned to kill them by throwing stones at them.
“Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?” he asked.
If you don’t, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place.
turn away from your sins.
They will throw dust on their heads They will weep and mourn They will cry out
We will hear the voice of the leader of the angels
Circumcision has value if you obey the law
The darkness has made them blind.
We will buy and sell and make money.”
The law came four hundred thirty years after the promise
It is the same mighty strength God showed. He showed this when he raised Christ from the dead. God seated him at his right hand in his heavenly kingdom.
And the blood of Jesus, his Son, makes us pure from all sin.
Fathers
Even though you have not seen him you love him
The soldiers followed their orders During the night they took Paul with them They brought him as far as Antipatris
So this priest also had to have something to offer.
Suppose someone forces you to go one mile. Go two miles with them.
The field is the world The good seed stands for the people who belong to the kingdom The weeds are the people who belong to the evil one
Moses writes about how the law could help a person do what God requires. He writes, “The person who does these things will live by them.”
What if a woman does not cover her head She might as well have her hair cut off But it is shameful for her to cut her hair or shave her head So she should cover her head
Even handkerchiefs and aprons that had touched him were taken to those who were sick
I can’t decide between the two. I long to leave this world and be with Christ. That is better by far.
At that time a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus. He was an educated man from Alexandria. He knew the Scriptures very well.
I am in Tokyo today
How do you understand it
You don’t follow the teaching of Jezebel.
But they didnt see it
So all of us who are grown up in the faith should see things this way
Those who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God.
There is nothing in them to make them fall into sin.
About noon King Agrippa I was on the road
So John’s messengers left. Then Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John.
People will not say Here it is Or There it is Thats because Gods kingdom is among you
I mean from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah He was killed between the altar and the temple
My brothers and sisters I have been told you are arguing with one another Some people from Chloes house have told me this
In fact thats the reason I was born I was born and came into the world to be a witness to the truth
A strong wind was blowing and the water became rough
Then that servant will receive a heavy beating
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with you all.
But Isaiah also speaks about what God says concerning Israel God said
“I give you a new command.
In the last days people will make fun of the truth They will laugh at it They will follow their own evil desires
On Shore at Malta
Paul Prays and Gives Thanks
God’s glory belongs to them. So do the covenants.
That was called the Holy Room
Then Peter realized what had happened He said Now I know for sure that the Lord has sent his angel He set me free from Herods power He saved me from everything the Jewish people were hoping would happen
That was the time they made a statue to be their god. It was shaped like a calf. They brought sacrifices to it. They even enjoyed what they had made with their own hands.
The Seventh Trumpet
“We have only five loaves of bread and two fish,” they answered.
He said, “Some Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul to the Sanhedrin tomorrow. They will pretend they want more facts about him.
“But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?”
But at the beginning of creation God made them male and female
The boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem.
God is not a God of disorder He is a God of peace just as in all the churches of the Lords people
Sir they said Always give us this bread
When they arrived, he spoke to them. “You know how I lived the whole time I was with you,” he said. “From the first day I came into Asia Minor,
the beast and the false prophet
“Where did they come from?”
Jesus answered them, “When you destroy this temple, I will raise it up again in three days.”
The next day Moses saw two Israelites fighting
Peter was wondering what the vision meant
The Roman commander saw what had happened. He praised God and said, “Jesus was surely a man who did what was right.”
In the end, it will be burned.
Those who serve Christ in this way are pleasing to God.
Jesus entered a house. Again a crowd gathered. It was so large that Jesus and his disciples were not even able to eat.
You will go ahead of the Lord to prepare the way for him
Jesus called together the twelve disciples
Everyone said good things about him
One of them struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear
I want you to remember the words the holy prophets spoke in the past Remember the command our Lord and Savior gave through your apostles
You foolish people of Galatia
Christ died for everyone. He died so that those who live should not live for themselves anymore. They should live for Christ. He died for them and was raised again.
God poured out the Spirit on us freely Thats because of what Jesus Christ our Savior has done
Do you really want to give Then the gift is measured by what someone has It is not measured by what they dont have
Then the woman came and fell at his feet She knew what had happened to her She was shaking with fear But she told him the whole truth
The stars in the sky fell to earth. They dropped like figs from a tree shaken by a strong wind.
After this, Jesus traveled around from one town and village to another.He announced the good news of God’s kingdom.
But here is what I tell you Not even Solomon in all his royal robes was dressed like one of these flowers
They will all wear out like a piece of clothing
Many of them said, “He is controlled by a demon. He has gone crazy! Why should we listen to him?”
When Jesus found him he said Do you believe in the Son of Man
They all ate the same spiritual food.
All this is for your benefit. God’s grace is reaching more and more people. So they will become more and more thankful. They will give glory to God.
I wont ask the rest of you in Thyatira to do anything else You havent learned what some people call Satans deep secrets
We are receiving a kingdom that cant be shaken So let us be thankful
Mahalalel was the son of Kenan.
Twenty-four other thrones surrounded that throne Twenty-four elders were sitting on them The elders were dressed in white They had gold crowns on their heads
You will not leave me in the place of the dead.
Skip it.
Jesus and the Miracle of Many Fish
And they will be faithful
It stirs up trouble all the time among people whose minds are twisted by sin The truth they once had has been taken away from them They think they can get rich by being godly
The ninth was made out of topaz.
How many loaves do you have Jesus asked Seven they replied and a few small fish
True Apostles of Christ
“ ‘How terrible! How terrible it is for you, great city!
He was circumcised as a sign of the covenant God had made with him It showed that his faith had made him right with God before he was circumcised
Scripture says, “Can what is made say to the one who made it,
So they accomplished nothing.
Even now it is already in the world
So when Christ came into the world, he said,
Not all earthly creatures are the same People have one kind of body Animals have another Birds have another kind Fish have still another
In nignity nignity two, something came to haunt the young man's dreams in the fiscal calendar።
The churches in Asia Minor send you greetings
I thought it was true
Johns baptism they replied
The Jews in the crowd pushed Alexander to the front
Then Herod secretly called for the Wise Men He found out from them exactly when the star had appeared
Should we sin because we are not ruled by the law but by Gods grace
God is love
They said to each other, “What he says is amazing!
“For some time the judge refused. But finally he said to himself, ‘I don’t have any respect for God. I don’t care about what people think.
After this, Jesus left the house. He saw a tax collector sitting at the tax booth. The man’s name was Levi. “Follow me,” Jesus said to him.
Don‘t fill yourself up with wine. Getting drunk will lead to wild living. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit.
Be Patient When You Suffer
Then he took a cup He gave thanks and handed it to them He said All of you drink from it
According to Wag, the war-affected districts are Abergele district and Tsagbaj district which rise in the top።
He will rule for ever and ever.”
Ask Jesus which one he means
Tell me teacher he said
God raised him from the dead. He is Jesus.
God also showed that this message is true by the gifts of the Holy Spirit. God gave them out as it pleased him.
But suppose you suffer for being a Christian. Then don’t be ashamed.
Then the end will come after Christ destroys all rule, authority and power. Then he will hand over the kingdom to God the Father.
One of Cretes own prophets has a saying He says People from Crete are always liars They are evil beasts They dont want to work They live only to eat
He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
But in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.”
But Peter said he had not been with him I dont know or understand what youre talking about he said He went out to the entrance to the courtyard
Here is God’s witness about him. ‘David, son of Jesse, is a man dear to my heart,’ he said. ‘David will do everything I want him to do.’
It is for those who commit sexual sinsIt is for those who commit homosexual acts
Elijah was a human being just as we are
They preached the good news in Perga. Then they went down to Attalia.
you won’t find me.
They stare at women who are not their wives. They want to sleep with them. They never stop sinning. They trap those who are not firm in their faith. They have mastered the art of getting what they want. God has placed them under his judgment.
The Lamb was surrounded by the four living creatures and the elders. He had seven horns and seven eyes.
Some of the believers were Pharisees. They stood up and said,
Don’t be like that. Instead, anyone who wants to be important among you must be your servant.
And I am going to be lifted up from the earth When I am I will bring all people to myself
Some of you say I have the right to do anything
And he destroyed seven nations in Canaan Then he gave the land to his people as their rightful share
He runs.
Many will come in my name They will claim I am he They will fool many people
He said, ‘Cornelius, God has heard your prayer. He has remembered your gifts to poor people.
The Spirit you received doesnt make you slaves Otherwise you would live in fear again Instead the Holy Spirit you received made you Gods adopted child
But Barnabas took him to the apostles He told them about Sauls journey
The Son Is Greater Than the Angels
He has been leading the Gentiles to obey God He has been doing this by what I have said and done
It wants what others have. It gets drunk and takes part in wild parties. It does many things of that kind. I warn you now as I did before. People who live like this will not receive God’s kingdom.
Speak to one another with psalms hymns and songs from the Spirit
And we are sending it to the church that meets in your home
The one who obeys God’s commands remains joined to him. And he remains joined to them. Here is how we know that God lives in us. We know it because of the Holy Spirit he gave us.
was John’s baptism from heaven? Or did it come from people?”
When you do ask for something
The disciples became very sad One after the other they began to say to him Surely you dont mean me Lord do you
I will strike the shepherd down
I didnt mean the people of this world who sin in this way I didnt mean those who always want more and more I didnt mean those who cheat or who worship statues of gods
All the gifts are produced by one and the same Spirit. He gives gifts to each person, just as he decides.
But it is hard to make it clear to you. That’s because you are no longer trying to understand.
Besides, we have all had human fathers who trained us.
Children, mothers, elders could not be treated with beds።
When Mary heard this; she got up quickly and went to him.
You didnt do anything wrong to me
“Should I crucify your king?” Pilate asked.
The Lord stood at my side. He gave me the strength to preach the whole message. Then all the Gentiles heard it. I was saved from the lion’s mouth.
I want to save you from this
The apostles began to ask one another about this
After this letter has been read to you send it on Be sure that it is also read to the church in Laodicea
It is the same with Gods covenant agreement
Love comes from a pure heart.
dont speak against one another
You claim that my Father is your God. He is the one who brings glory to me.
A name is written on him that only he knows.
Jesus replied, “And why don’t you obey God’s command? You would rather follow your own teachings!
In the same way, the women must be worthy of respect.
Then I will be able to boast about you on the day Christ returns
Otherwise they might see with their eyes
After hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
The man who had received five bags of gold brought the other five. ‘Master,’ he said, ‘you trusted me with five bags of gold. See, I have earned five more.’
Instead, we have given up doing secret and shameful things. We don’t twist God’s word. In fact, we do just the opposite. We present the truth plainly. In the sight of God, we make our appeal to everyone’s sense of what is right and wrong.
Simon whom Jesus named Peter and his brother AndrewJamesJohnPhilipBartholomew
How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree
“Yes it is, Lord,” she said. “Even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their owner’s table.”
And you will be children of the Most High God
Two rebels against Rome were crucified with him. One was on his right and one was on his left.
Pay everything you owe But you can never pay back all the love you owe one another Whoever loves other people has done everything the law requires
The Shadey Holiday is usually played every year from August  to  with girls coming together to celebrate the anniversary of the Emperors accession
Neither of them had the money to pay him back.
Im writing to you because you know the Father
My jealousy for you comes from God himself I promised to give you to only one husband That husband is Christ I wanted to be able to give you to him as if you were a pure virgin
Here is what you can be sure of
But those offerings remind people of their sins every year.
By what authority are you doing these things they asked Who gave you authority to do this
The desires controlled by sin do not want what the Spirit delights in. And the Spirit does not want what the desires controlled by sin delight in. The two are at war with each other. That’s why you are not supposed to do whatever you want.
Then how will we escape if we don’t pay attention to God’s great salvation? The Lord first announced this salvation. Those who heard him gave us the message about it.
I'm counting on you.
The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands to make them “clean.” That’s what the elders teach.
Whoever finds their life will lose it Whoever loses their life because of me will find it
We entered the man’s house.
Not at all
Remember that while our Lord is waiting patiently to return, people are being saved. Our dear brother Paul also wrote to you about this. God made him wise to write as he did.
He is tall
God has not put angels in charge of the world that is going to come. We are talking about that world.
He also gives them everything else they have.
Help me.
And he will lift you up
Finally, I want all of you to agree with one another. Be understanding. Love one another. Be kind and tender. Be humble.
God never said to any of the angels
Here is my command. Love one another, just as I have loved you.
I heard a loud voice from the throne It said Look God now makes his home with the people He will live with them They will be his people And God himself will be with them and be their God
That will happen after God sets all his people completely free. All these things will bring praise to his glory.
just like Melchizedek.”
Because you believed the good news you are saved But you must hold firmly to the message I preached to you If you dont you have believed it for nothing
“The kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to collect all the money his servants owed him.
They got up and ran Jesus out of town
comfort your hearts
Am I leading a band of armed men against you asked Jesus Do you have to come out with swords and clubs to capture me
“If it pleases the Lord,
There he met a Jew named Aquila, who was a native of Pontus. Aquila had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla.
The great gift that God has for us does not depend on the law. If it did, it would no longer depend on the promise. But God gave it to Abraham as a free gift through a promise.
All of them try very hard to obey the law.
You hate the way the Nicolaitans act. I hate it too.
They gave glory to the God of heaven
Others thought Jesus was talking about giving something to poor people
The rest were supposed to get there on boards or other pieces of the ship.
we will be like the heavenly man
Then they will see your good deeds.
Thats because a person who doubts is like a wave of the sea The wind blows and tosses them around
Then do what is right
From then on, no one dared to ask Jesus any more questions.
That day will not come until people rise up against God.
The first handful of dough that is offered is holy This makes all of the dough holy If the root is holy so are the branches
Outside are those who worship statues of gods.
The result of sin’s control in our lives is clear.
People should judge me by what I do and say
The woman escaped into the desert where God had a place prepared for her There she would be taken care of for one thousennd two hundred sixity days
So God let them continue to have evil thoughts. They did things they shouldn’t do.
I’m writing these things to warn you. I am warning you about people trying to lead you astray.
“Lord,” Martha said to Jesus, “I wish you had been here! Then my brother would not have died.
So Paul and Barnabas spent a lot of time there. They spoke boldly for the Lord. He gave them the ability to do signs and wonders. In this way the Lord showed that they were telling the truth about his grace.
You don’t have what you want, because you don’t ask God.
When they climbed into the boat the wind died down
I hope you will discover that I haven’t failed the test.
He has given us his Holy Spirit
It was filled with her terrible, dirty sins.
Because of what Jesus said, a false report spread among the believers. The story was told that the disciple Jesus loved wouldn’t die.
One of them was an authority on the law. So he tested Jesus with a question.
Right away Jesus called out to them, “Be brave! It is I. Don’t be afraid.”
When the Messiah comes no one will know where he is from
This is the first resurrection The rest of the dead did not come to life until the one thoused years were ended
How long will it be until you pay them back for killing us?”
They were also given to his seed. Scripture does not say, “and to seeds.”
So here is what I ask Did God turn his back on his people Not at all I myself belong to Israel I am one of Abrahams children I am from the tribe of Benjamin
“Yes,” they replied.
Can fresh water and salt water flow out of the same spring
He studied very hard
Many people refuse to obey God All they do is talk about things that mean nothing
Nothing they answered
In the same way, faith without good deeds is dead.
We were also very glad to see how happy Titus was.
you should have taken my advice not to sail from Crete Then you would have avoided this harm and loss
He prayed hard that it wouldnt rain
He who was sitting on the throne said I am making everything new Then he said Write this down You can trust these words They are true
The king said to the girl Ask me for anything you want Ill give it to you
Yet for fourty years they saw what I did.
At dawn the elders of the people met together. These included the chief priests and the teachers of the law. Jesus was led to them.
Our minds have been cleansed from a sense of guilt. Our bodies have been washed with pure water.
There must not be any bad language or foolish talk or dirty jokes They are out of place Instead you should give thanks
As they talked about those things, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them.
Both of them were running.
And there will be no more sadness
They brag about what they should be ashamed of.
I haven’t caused you any expense at all.
He chose to be treated badly together with the people of God. He chose not to enjoy sin’s pleasures. They only last for a short time.
Welcome others into your homes.
Peleg was the son of Eber.
“Return home and tell how much God has done for you.” So the man went away. He told people all over town how much Jesus had done for him.
Because the things Cain had done were wrong.
God planned that those he had chosen would become like his Son In that way Christ will be the first and most honored among many brothers and sisters
Many people who were disabled or who couldnt walk were healed
A little later someone else saw Peter You also are one of them he said
He chose you to be saved by accepting the good news that we preach And you will share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ
God’s promise would be worthless.
I can swim very fast.
Their bodies will lie in the main street of the great city
It is written How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news
No one has greater love than the one who gives their life for their friends.
When daylight came they saw a bay with a sandy beach
How awful it will be in those days for pregnant women How awful for nursing mothers
They have wandered away from the faith They have wounded themselves with many sorrows
No one can see Gods kingdom unless they are born again
But when you are invited, take the loweSt place. Then your host will come over to you. He will say, ‘Friend, move up to a better place.’ Then you will be honored in front of all the other guests.
Jesus sent him home He told him Dont even go into the village
Dont let any part of yourself be used to do evil Instead give yourselves to God
The three most important things to have are faith hope and love But the greatest of them is love
So I made up my mind that I would not make another painful visit to you
You foolish people of Galatia!
The apostles and elders met to consider this question
You are worthy because you were put to death
But what if these things don’t describe someone at all? Then that person can’t see very well.
And they are still like that today.”
“ ‘Sir,’ the servant said, ‘what you ordered has been done. But there is still room.’
I found it by chance
In the same way, husbands should love their wives. They should love them as they love their own bodies. Any man who loves his wife loves himself.
If he had he would have had to suffer many times since the world was created But he has appeared once and for all time
Lord dont trouble yourself I am not good enough to have you come into my house
I have a lot to write to you. But I don’t want to write with pen and ink.
The people went out to see what had happened. Then they came to Jesus. They found the man who was now free of the demons. He was sitting at Jesus’ feet. He was dressed and thinking clearly. All this made the people afraid.
Then they will make the teaching about God our Savior appealing in every way
When the people heard this, they said, “We hope this never happens!”
But I dont want to write with pen and ink
Their weakness was turned to strength
“My friends, listen to me. Don’t be afraid of those who kill the body but can’t do any more than that.
“So Abraham left the land of Babylonia. He settled in Harran.
“ ‘Sir,’ the man replied, ‘leave it alone for one more year. I’ll dig around it and feed it.
Paul talked about how to live a godly life. He talked about how people should control themselves.
May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with God’s people. Amen.
Let them see how pure you are Let them see that your lives are full of respect for God
Huge hailstones weighing about  pounds each fell from the sky The hail crushed people And they spoke evil things against God because of the plague Thats because the plague of hail was so terrible
“How do you know me?” Nathanael asked.
The young men of Wag Shum beg their God to bring them to peace every year።
They heard them speaking in languages they had not known before They also heard them praising God
To godliness, add kindness for one another.
I watched as the Lamb broke open the first of the seven seals Then I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice that sounded like thunder Come
Here is what we can be sure of when we come to God in prayer.
A third of the trees were burned up
The ax is already lying at the roots of the trees.
He put away his toys.
Here is what God says about the Son God has given us eternal life And this life is found in his Son
I hope they will be forgiven for it.
And if they are chosen by grace, then they can’t work for it. If that were true, grace wouldn’t be grace anymore.
They blindfolded him They said Prophesy Who hit you
That made my joy greater than ever
Here is how we know that we love Gods children
Jesus called for his  disciples to come to him. He gave them authority to drive out evil spirits and to heal every illness and sickness.
Now there is a crown waiting for me. It is given to those who are right with God. The Lord, who judges fairly, will give it to me on the day he returns. He will not give it only to me. He will also give it to all those who are longing for him to return.
On the Sabbath day they entered the synagogue and sat down
Anyone who lives on milk is still a baby That person does not want to learn about living a godly life
Preach the word. Be ready to serve God in good times and bad. Correct people’s mistakes. Warn them. Encourage them with words of hope. Be very patient as you do these things. Teach them carefully.
So in my mind I am a slave to God’s law. But sin controls my desires. So I am a slave to the law of sin.
Every time people broke the Law they were punished
Jesus defended himself He said to them My Father is always doing his work
Can you add even one hour to your life by worrying?
The other prisoners were listening to them
Perhaps he will forgive you for having such a thought in your heart.
Godly sadness causes us to turn away from our sins and be saved.
Jesus Prays in a Quiet Place
Continuing on from Tyre, we landed at Ptolemais. There we greeted the brothers and sisters. We stayed with them for a day.
Finally, Pilate handed Jesus over to them to be nailed to a cross.
The king was very upset. But he thought of his promise and his dinner guests. So he told one of his men to give her what she asked for.
Nothing that is not pure and “clean” has ever entered my mouth.’
So you don’t need anyone to teach you. God’s Spirit teaches you about everything.
Mary reached the place where Jesus was. When she saw him, she fell at his feet. She said, “Lord,
You stubborn people You wont obey You wont listen You are just like your people of long ago
Elihud was the father of EleazarEleazar was the father of MatthanMatthan was the father of Jacob
In those days I will pour out my Spirit on my servants
They give thanks to God
Jesus turned and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! You are standing in my way. You do not have in mind the things God cares about. Instead, you only have in mind the things humans care about.”
They do not know how to live in peace.”
It was about noon the next day The men were on their journey and were approaching the city Peter went up on the roof to pray
But if she does, she must not get married again. Or she can go back to her husband. And a husband must not divorce his wife.
The people were told they could leave the service. Many Jews followed Paul and Barnabas. Many Gentiles who faithfully worshiped the God of the Jews did the same. Paul and Barnabas talked with them. They tried to get them to keep living in God’s grace.
You will cry and be sad.
Those who use the things of the world should not become all wrapped up in them The world as it now exists is passing away
He was seen only by us
Something that looked like a huge mountain on fire was thrown into the sea.
If your gift is serving, then serve.
The one who sat there shone like jasper and ruby Around the throne was a rainbow shining like an emerald
So who can brag No one Are people saved by the law that requires them to obey Not at all They are saved because of the law that requires faith
Again Jesus called the crowd to him He said Listen to me everyone Understand this
To others he gives the ability to tell the spirits apart.
Some of you have become proud. You act as if I weren’t coming to you.
All the people gathered around him there.
At one time you did not obey God. But now you have received mercy because Israel did not obey.
You think you can make foolish people wise
He will also come a second time.
I am coming soon
But they have no roots So they last only a short time They quickly fall away from the faith when trouble or suffering comes because of the message
And suppose that person doesnt take pity on these needy people Then how can the love of God be in that person
The Offering for the Lord’s People
Run away from the evil things that young people long for. Try hard to do what is right. Have faith, love and peace. Do these things together with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
Then they will be ready They will not be caught naked and so be put to shame
He has filled with good things those who are hungry
He is headed for ruin
They said,
I don’t dare to compare myself with those who praise themselves. I’m not that kind of person.
Many will say to me on that day, ‘Lord! Lord! Didn’t we prophesy in your name? Didn’t we drive out demons in your name? Didn’t we do many miracles in your name?’
Jesus spoke to the man with the weak and twisted hand. “Stand up in front of everyone,” he said.
So the captain went with his officers and brought the apostles back. But they didn’t use force. They were afraid the people would kill them by throwing stones at them.
Paul Speaks to the Crowd
Simon Peter answered him Lord who we can go to
We want to keep anyone from blaming us for how we take care of that large gift
If you do everything I have just said you will never trip and fall
After that they will leave that country and worship me here
I give you a command in the sight of God and Christ Jesus. Christ will judge the living and the dead. Because he and his kingdom are coming, here is the command I give you.
Now then why are you trying to test God You test him when you put a heavy load on the shoulders of Gentiles Our people of long ago couldnt carry that load We cant either
It was the good news about how you could be saved
They must hold on to the deep truths of the faith Even their own minds tell them to do that
Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia. She stands for the present city of Jerusalem. That’s because she and her children are slaves.
Your salvation doesnt come from anything you do It is Gods gift
“Don’t you see? Everything that enters the mouth goes into the stomach. Then it goes out of the body.
You didn’t give it up even in the days of Antipas. Antipas, my faithful witness, was put to death in your city, where Satan lives.
Then God’s temple in heaven was opened.
Either way all of you share in Gods grace together with me
Paul Arrives in Rome
But I will stay at Ephesus until the day of Pentecost
He saw one of them being treated badly by an Egyptian. So he went to help him. He got even by killing the man.
I dont want to work
The Father has sent me So now I am sending you
Zechariah asked the angelI am an old man
But in these last days he has spoken to us through his Son He is the one whom God appointed to receive all things God also made everything through him
Joseph was the son of Mattathias
The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon. He told him, “We have found the Messiah.” Messiah means Christ.
God’s gift can’t be compared with Adam’s sin.
Others may not think of me as an apostle But I am certainly one to you You are the proof that I am the Lords apostle
He will pay back trouble to those who give you trouble
Anyone who does what is evil hasn’t really seen or known God.
As it is, you brag. You brag about the evil plans your pride produces.
They will cause people to think badly about the way of truth
I do what I dont want to do But I am not really the one who is doing it It is sin living in me that does it
A good man says good things. These come from the good that is stored up in his heart.
And Jesus who makes people holy and the people he makes holy belong to the same family So Jesus is not ashamed to call them his brothers and sisters
Here is what is written in the Law of Moses Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw Is it oxen that God is concerned about
Keep far away from sexual sins
Brothers and sisters here is what I want you to know What has happened to me has actually helped to spread the good news
But suppose people have something that might be used to help their parents. You allow them to say it is instead ‘a gift set apart for God.’
I will do it for anyone who carries out my plans to the end I will give that person authority over the nations
If the people of Israel do not continue in their unbelief, they will again be joined to the tree. God is able to join them to the tree again.
So let us boldly approach Gods throne of grace
How terrible
You will be able to destroy all the power of the enemy
I saw the Lord speaking to me. ‘Quick!’ he said. ‘Leave Jerusalem at once. The people here will not accept what you tell them about me.’
Take them with you. Join them in the Jewish practice that makes people pure and ‘clean.’
Who were those who heard and refused to obey
The sixth angel blew his trumpet. Then I heard a voice coming from the four corners of the golden altar. The altar stands in front of God.
Then come down from the cross! Save yourself!”
I want to visit Korea.
Herod was the ruler of Galilee.
But he said to me, “My grace is all you need. My power is strongest when you are weak.” So I am very happy to brag about how weak I am. Then Christ’s power can rest on me.
And there were many in Israel who had skin diseases in the days of Elisha the prophet. But not one of them was healed except Naaman the Syrian.”
You have said so Jesus replied
He sent them out two by two ahead of him. They went to every town and place where he was about to go.
That word contains the mystery that has been hidden for many ages
Night and day she keeps on praying. Night and day she asks God for help.
And if I asked you, you would not answer.
When he said this, they tried to arrest him. But no one laid a hand on him. The time for him to show who he really was had not yet come.
God chose to give us new birth through the message of truth. He wanted us to be the first harvest of his new creation.
We have preached that Christ has been raised from the dead So how can some of you say that no one rises from the dead
The sailors wanted to escape from the ship. So they let the lifeboat down into the sea. They pretended they were going to lower some anchors from the front of the ship.
“As you know, the Passover Feast is two days away. The Son of Man will be handed over to be nailed to a cross.”
When the young man heard this he went away sad He was very rich
Here is a true saying. ‘One plant and another gathers.’
I can do all this by the power of Christ He gives me strength
Then another angel came out of the temple Take your blade
They are the foundation. Christ Jesus himself is the most important stone in the building.
This happened as Isaiah the prophet had said it would. He had said,
Pray that I will be kept safe from those in Judea who do not believe I am taking the offering to Jerusalem Pray that it will be welcomed by the Lords people there
Behind the second curtain was a room called the Most Holy Room
If this man were a prophet he would know who is touching him
From the throne came flashes of lightning rumblings and thunder Seven lamps were blazing in front of the throne These stand for the seven spirits of God
He will bring me glory Thats because what he receives from me he will show to you
I know that you are praying for me I also know that God will give me the Spirit of Jesus Christ to help me So no matter what happens Im sure I will still be set free
They should commit themselves to their faithful Creator
Who will not bring glory to your name
Without holiness no one will see the Lord.
I dislike big cities.
Don’t let your feelings get out of control.
But here is what I tell you. Do not be angry with a brother or sister. Anyone who is angry with them will be judged. Again, anyone who says to a brother or sister, ‘Raca,’ must stand trial in court. And anyone who says, ‘You fool!’ will be in danger of the fire in hell.
Some Pharisees came to test Jesus. They asked, “Does the Law allow a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all?”
The priest of Zeus brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates. He and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to Paul and Barnabas.
Some of the teachers of the law replied You have spoken well teacher
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses their soul? Or what can anyone trade for their soul?
At one time we too acted like fools We didnt obey God We were tricked We were controlled by all kinds of desires and pleasures
“This is the man who teaches everyone in all places against our people. He speaks against our law and against this holy place.
So be sincere
I tell that one, ‘Come,’ and he comes. I say to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
Our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father loved us. By his grace God gave us comfort that will last forever. The hope he gave us is good. May our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father
Suppose someone teaches something different than I have taught Suppose that person doesnt agree with the true teaching of our Lord Jesus Christ Suppose they dont agree with godly teaching
I want to lose weight
It is the smallest of all seeds. But when it grows, it is the largest of all garden plants. It becomes a tree. Birds come and rest in its branches.”
And he will lift you up.
A large number of Jews have come to me about him. They came to me in Jerusalem and also here in Caesarea. They keep shouting that he shouldn’t live any longer.
Abraham was looking forward to the city that has foundations.
You can’t drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons too. You can’t have a part in both the Lord’s table and the table of demons.
Jesse was the son of Obed
Wives,
Everyone was amazed at what God was doing. They were amazed when the apostles performed many wonders and signs.
But they shouted even louder, “Crucify him!”
The world as it now exists is passing away
So she ran to Simon Peter and another disciple, the one Jesus loved. She said,
But God continues to give us more grace. That’s why Scripture says,
I have worked much harder
So Pilate decided to give them what they wanted
He is always with me
When they heard this they became very angry
He knows his time is short.”
It also forced everyone to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead.
Large crowds followed him. People came from Galilee, from the area known as the Ten Cities, and from Jerusalem and Judea. Others came from the area across the Jordan River.
Young men Im writing to you because you are strong
Then Jesus said to him, “Get up! Pick up your mat and walk.”
Do Not Worry
Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia. She stands for the present city of Jerusalem.
We serve him whether the news about us is bad or good.
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with you all
God was bringing the world back to himself through Christ. He did not hold people’s sins against them. God has trusted us with the message that people may be brought back to him.
Then ungodly people will be destroyed
Jesus died for us Some will be alive when he comes Others will be dead Either way we will live together with him
But there are others who only look out for themselves. They don’t accept the truth. They go astray. God will pour out his great anger on them.
So remain strong in the faith. Put the belt of truth around your waist. Put the armor of godliness on your chest.
Jesus said, “Are you really Abraham’s children?
The seed that fell among thorns stands for those who hear the message.
He is a Japanese boy
Many will say to me on that day Lord Lord Didnt we prophesy in your name Didnt we drive out demons in your name Didnt we do many miracles in your name
It has given me great joy to find some of your children living by the truth. That’s just what the Father commanded us to do.
Erastus stayed in Corinth.
They came to him and said, “Teacher, we know that you are a man of honor. You don’t let other people tell you what to do or say. You don’t care how important they are. But you teach the way of God truthfully. Is it right to pay the royal tax to Caesar or not?
Your troubles have come in order to prove that your faith is real Your faith is worth more than gold
These blessings will be with us because we love the truth.
The Pharisees saw this. So they asked the disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”
“No, Lord! I will not!” Peter replied. “I have never eaten anything that is not pure and ‘clean.’ ”
They want you to join them in their wild and wasteful living. So they say bad things about you.
“Don’t you understand?” Jesus asked. “Don’t you see? Nothing that enters a person from the outside can make them ‘unclean.’
I have worked very hard. Often I have gone without sleep. I have been hungry and thirsty. Often I have gone without food. I have been cold and naked.
The chief priests and the teachers of the law were looking for a way to get rid of Jesus They were afraid of the people
Now the Lord’s hand is against you.
I felt good tonight.
The Father raises the dead and gives them life. In the same way, the Son gives life to anyone he wants to.
you are outsiders
Paul talked about how to live a godly life He talked about how people should control themselves
The Lamb was surrounded by the four living creatures and the elders He had seven horns and seven eyes
They were tentmakers just as he was So he stayed and worked with them
Now then who are you to judge your brother or sister
How terrible for you You are like graves that are not marked People walk over them without knowing it
It is written that Abraham had two sons
You who want to be under the authority of the law,
That is what Scripture means where it says
You want something
And the only ones who know the Father are the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to make the Father known.”
I replied No Lord I will not
At that time they had a well-known prisoner named Jesus Barabbas.
“Which of the three do you think was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by robbers?”
We are trying hard to do what both the Lord and people think is right
Wake up!
The wind blows where it wants to
Be at peace።
Inside it the wooden chest called the ark of his covenant could be seen
The eighth was made out of beryl
God will pay back each person in keeping with what they have done
They take over the houses of widows. They say long prayers to show off. God will punish these men very much.”
So anyone making a promise in the name of the altar makes a promise in the name of it and everything on it.
“But when the renters saw the son, they talked the matter over. ‘This is the one who will receive all the owner’s property someday,’ they said. ‘Let’s kill him. Then everything will be ours.’
When all the people saw Jesus they were filled with wonder And they ran to greet him
Didnt anyone else return and give praise to God except this outsider
His life has no end
His master answered I will put you in charge of five towns
You must prophesy again about many peoples and kings
“‘Let someone else take his place as leader.’
They must be honest and true
“ ‘The sun will be darkened.
-Gaius sends you his greetings.
Out of the smoke came locusts. They came down on the earth.
Those who have served well earn the full respect of others
Barnabas sold a field he owned. He brought the money from the sale. He put it down at the apostles’ feet.
He is able to break the seven seals and open the scroll.”
“The prophet Daniel spoke about ‘the hated thing that destroys.’ Someday you will see it standing in the holy place. The reader should understand this.
Don‘t believe me unless I do the works of my Father.
Forgive other people when they sin against you If you do your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you
Here is how we know that God lives in us
The promise was made even though at that time Abraham had no child.
All who heard what had happened were filled with fear?
It was because of his mercy. He saved us by washing away our sins. We were born again. The Holy Spirit gave us new life.
They must collect it from the other Israelites They must do this even though all of them belong to the family line of Abraham
It is certainly Abraham’s children that he helps. He doesn’t help angels.
I give my love to all of you who belong to Christ Jesus. Amen.
So I ask you again, how does God give you his Spirit? How does he work miracles among you? Is it by doing what the law says? Or is it by believing what you have heard?
The whole church and all who heard about these things were filled with fear.
At one time we all lived among them. Our desires were controlled by sin. We tried to satisfy what they wanted us to do. We followed our desires and thoughts. God was angry with us like he was with everyone else.
Jesus asked his disciples to come to him. He said, “What I’m about to tell you is true. That poor widow has put more into the offering box than all the others.
He said People of Athens I see that you are very religious in every way
And pray that we will be saved from sinful and evil people. Not everyone is a believer.
“Then the man who had received one bag of gold came. ‘Master,’ he said, ‘I knew that you are a hard man. You harvest where you have not planted. You gather crops where you have not scattered seed.
Then one of the elders spoke to me
I already warned you during my second visit.
The way he judges is true and fair
Then the crowd there turned against Sosthenes, the synagogue leader. They beat him up in front of the governor. But Gallio didn’t care at all.
I am counting on you.
A messenger is calling out in the desert
remember what the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ said would happen
Does what we say make sense If so it is because we want to serve you
You didnt recognize the time when God came to you So your enemies will smash you to the ground They will destroy you and all the people inside your walls They will not leave one stone on top of another
Having All Things in Christ
While Paul was still presenting his case, Festus interrupted. “You are out of your mind, Paul!” he shouted.
Peter came to Jesus. He asked, “Lord, how many times should I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me? Up to seven times?”
Instead, they are bothering others.
God will erase many sins by forgiving them
The Pharisees argued with him. “Here you are,” they said, “appearing as your own witness. But your witness does not count.”
Like a good soldier of Christ Jesus join with me in suffering
Slaves do not know their masters business
I am happy because of what I am suffering for you.
Instead be joyful that you are taking part in Christs sufferings
Before long, the world will not see me anymore.
You were chosen to do good even if you suffer.
“So then, everyone who hears my words and puts them into practice is like a wise man. He builds his house on the rock.
Suppose the foot says I am not a hand So I dont belong to the body By saying this it cannot stop being part of the body
Let we not become tired of doing well. At the right time we will gather a crop if we don’t give up.
It will lead to the time when God will give you his glory.
“You heavens, be glad for this!
Because of what he said, many more people became believers.
And when she finds it, she will call her friends and neighbors together. She will say, ‘Be joyful with me. I have found my lost coin.’
Warn anyone who tries to get believers to separate from one another.
Now at just the right time he has made his promise clear He did this through the preaching that he trusted me with God our Savior has commanded all these things
Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home. Then when you come together, you will not be judged.
The disciples were afraid as they entered the cloud.
This all happened at Bethany on the other side of the Jordan River. That was where John was baptizing.
So they called out to the blind man Cheer up Get up on your feet Jesus is calling for you
But he said to them It is I dont be afraid
Here is what I want you to know. There will be terrible times in the last days.
He wants all of you to learn to control your own bodies You must live in a way that is holy You must live with honor
God did amazing miracles through Paul.
I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews He teaches us that God is true
My name is Legion he replied There are many of us
But suppose your hearts are jealous and bitter Suppose you are concerned only about getting ahead
I am the bread of life
People who say things like that arent obeying God He is angry with them
Your gifts meet the needs of the Lords people And thats not all Your gifts also cause many people to thank God
I used to speak evil things against Jesus I tried to hurt his followers I really pushed them around
You say I have the right to do anything But not everything is helpful
He is a Japanese boy.
By now it was dark
Be humble in front of the Lord.
He sat down to teach them
So the rich man told him to come in. He asked him, ‘What is this I hear about you? Tell me exactly how you have handled what I own. You can’t be my manager any longer.’
Then Pilate said to them, “Here is the man!”
When we came to Macedonia, we weren’t able to rest. We were attacked no matter where we went.
Suppose someone comes to you
No one should treat him badly.
Pauls Trial in Front of Felix
Annas the high priest was there So were Caiaphas
Your troubles have come in order to prove that your faith is real. Your faith is worth more than gold.
Then that person doesnt belong to God But whoever follows Christs teaching belongs to the Father and the Son
The Spirit of the God who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you. So the God who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your bodies. He will do this because of his Spirit who lives in you.
Some of the people there became angry They said to one another Why waste this perfume
But because I tell the truth, you don’t believe me!
The Lord is coming soon
But Mary stood outside the tomb crying. As she cried, she bent over to look into the tomb.
Paul’s Work for the Church
He replied The man they call Jesus made some mud and put it on my eyes He told me to go to Siloam and wash
He is the spirit who is now at work in those who don’t obey God.
The king was very evil and dishonest with our people He treated them badly He forced them to throw out their newborn babies to die
I know what it’s like not to have what I need. I also know what it’s like to have more than I need. I have learned the secret of being content no matter what happens. I am content whether I am well fed or hungry. I am content whether I have more than enough or not enough.
Satan who brings charges against our brothers and sistershas been thrown down
“Be holy,
After drinking old wine, no one wants the new.
We said goodbye to each other. Then we went on board the ship.
Thats because God chose us to live pure lives He wants us to be holy
It had all kinds of four-footed animals in it
We wanted to come to you Again and again I Paul wanted to come But Satan blocked our way
He threw it down on the earth.
We worked when we were with you
After this, Jesus traveled around from one town and village to another. He announced the good news of God’s kingdom. His tewelve disciples were with him.
Jesus looked at him and said You are Simon son of John You will be called Cephas Cephas means Peter or Rock
The public said they were facing death because they would not go to the health center and get full service።
Dear friend, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters. You are faithful even though they are strangers to you.
We tell you that we will certainly not go up before those who have died.
Jesus looked up and saw a large crowd coming toward him.
Many people spread their coats on the road Others spread branches they had cut in the fields
I will pour out my Spirit on both men and women.
The Lord’s power was with them.
People have one kind of body
So he arrested Peter also
He told them everything that had happened. Then he sent them to Joppa.
You claim to teach others but you dont even teach yourself
It looked like a blazing torch.
Advice for Those Who Are Married
In her hand she held a golden cup filled with things that God hates
The moon has another kind.
Peter followed him out of the prison
if our hearts do not judge us
So they answered Jesus, “We don’t know.”
Five times the Jews gave me  strokes with a whip.
At that time Gallio was governor of Achaia. The Jews of Corinth got together and attacked Paul. They brought him into court.
Its rider is called Faithful and True
They will finally get exactly what they deserve
Five days later Ananias the high priest went down to Caesarea Some elders and a lawyer named Tertullus went with him
You do not know him
The manager told him Take your bill and change it to  bushels
“What do we care?” they replied. “That’s your problem.”
So don’t let anyone judge you because of what you eat or drink. Don’t let anyone judge you about holy days. I’m talking about special feasts and New Moons and Sabbath days.
He says,
It hardly ever leaves him It is destroying him
They will fall down and worship God They will exclaim God is really here among you
Greet Apelles. He remained faithful to Christ even when he was tested.
Right away he and everyone who lived with him were baptized.
Philadelphia
May the grace shown by the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all May the love that God has given us be with you  And may the sharing of life brought about by the Holy Spirit be with you all
So crowds of people came to hear him They also came to be healed of their sicknesses
It made the earth and all who live on it worship the first beast The first beast was the one whose deadly wound had been healed
May the God who gives hope fill you with great joy May you have perfect peace as you trust in him May the power of the Holy Spirit fill you with hope
So the slaves went out into the streets They gathered all the people they could find the bad as well as the good Soon the wedding hall was filled with guests
Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?
The king is familiar with these things.
languages
Through his body on the cross Christ set aside the law with all its commands and rules
Philip Goes to Samaria
They obeyed all the Lords commands and rules faithfully
I dont see why not
He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet. Then he called the believers and especially the widows. He brought her to them. They saw that she was alive.
Or is God the God of Jews only Isnt he also the God of Gentiles Yes he is their God too
That’s because they will have nothing bad to say about us.
For a while you chose to enjoy his light
He is the one you told us about.
Still other seed fell on good soil It grew up and produced a crop   or even one hundred times more than the farmer planted
And wasn’t that the opposite of how things should be done? How much more easily will the natural branches be joined to their own olive tree!
Abraham became Isaacs father
But everyone who is completely trained will be like their teacher
So Pilate decided to give them what they wanted.
Paul Preaches in Athens
The law was given so that sin would increase.
We passed our teachings on to you by what we preached and wrote
You too must be patient You must remain strong The Lord will soon come back
The gods have come down to us in human form they exclaimed
Where do you
All by itself the soil produces grain. First the stalk comes up. Then the head appears. Finally, the full grain appears in the head.
Should I crucify your king Pilate asked
I Paul am writing this letter Silas and Timothy join me in writing
The world was not worthy of them They wandered in deserts and mountains
When he does come he must remain for only a little while
I tell you now is the time God has mercy Now is the day he saves
God gave us his Spirit.
Jesus spoke to his disciples. “Things that make people sin are sure to come,” he said. “But how terrible it will be for anyone who causes those things to come!
But not all the people of Israel accepted the good news
You will hear about wars You will also hear people talking about future wars Dont be alarmed Those things must happen But the end still isnt here
Every time you drink it do it in memory of me
How can Christ and Satan agrees Or what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever
I was blind
Heres how we know that we are joined to him
If that were true, grace wouldn’t be grace anymore.
"I don't like when it's silent," the forces he thinks are doing a strong job of not tilting the inner life of the people።
“Listen to his voice today.
He would not allow anyone to carry items for sale through the temple courtyard.
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin
The prophets of long ago were treated the same way
When he judges or makes war,
So all the Jews and Greeks who lived in Asia Minor heard the word of the Lord.
I wish I were younger.
At one time you were dead in your sins. Your desires controlled by sin were not circumcised. But God gave you knew life together with Christ. He forgave us all our sins.
Everyone who eats some of this bread will live forever
Change your laughter to mourning.
God exists
God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son
My brothers and sisters suppose one of you wanders away from the truth And suppose someone brings that person back
the birth of Jesus, the death of Jesus.
Then a third of the day had no light.
We went on ahead to the ship. We sailed for Assos.
Whatever you believe about these things keep between yourself and God
I want to save you from this.
Your enemy the devil is like a roaring lion
I brought him to your disciples. But they couldn’t heal him.”
I have a lot of cats.
They see that the things you do are right
We couldnt wait any longer
I will say it again
They spent the rest of the day with him
Always keep watching Pray that you will be able to escape all that is about to happen Also pray that you will not be judged guilty when the Son of Man comes
He went on to say What comes out of a person is what makes them unclean
They must follow the lead of their husbands.
They used the coins to buy a potter’s field, just as the Lord commanded me.”
He takes away the message from their hearts.
The wall was made out of jasper The city was made out of pure gold as pure as glass
They were scattered after Stephen was killed
I will also give the morning star to all who have victory
And the man you live with now is not your husband.
The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun
So they dont follow Christs teaching
Then he put the man on his own donkey He brought him to an inn and took care of him
They were tentmakers, just as he was. So he stayed and worked with them.
But worldly sadness brings death
The Spirit led him into the temple courtyard.
Then you will be able to see.
Now we see only a dim likeness of things. It is as if we were seeing them in a foggy mirror. But someday we will see clearly. We will see face to face. What I know now is not complete. But someday I will know completely, just as God knows me completely.
Im busy
God remembered Babylon the Great
I dont want to wait
The Greek Jews complained about the non-Greek Jews.
The pleasure you longed for has left you.
Others said, “He seems to be telling us about gods we’ve never heard of.”
Here I am I stand at the door and knock If anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come in I will eat with that person and they will eat with me
Everyone in Jerusalem heard about this. So they called that field Akeldama. In their language, Akeldama means the Field of Blood.
Or are Barnabas and I the only ones who have to do other work for a living Are we the only ones who cant just do the work of apostles all the time
He has never obeyed the truth There is no truth in him
Turn away from this evil sin of yours. Pray to the Lord.
except the one who was headed for ruin It happened so that Scripture would come true
While Joseph and Mary were there the time came for the child to be born
It was nearly time for God to make his promise to Abraham come true.
The Beast Who Comes Out of the Earth
It’s true that some preach about Christ because they are jealous.
Judas knew the place He was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies
They will say Where is this return he promised Everything goes on in the same way it has since our people of long ago died In fact it has continued this way since God first created everything
But if I spoke the truth, why did you hit me?”
We announce to you what we have seen and heard. We do it so you can share life together with us. And we share life with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ.
Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”
I have had to keep on the move. I have been in danger from rivers. I have been in danger from robbers. I have been in danger from my fellow Jews and in danger from Gentiles. I have been in danger in the city, in the country, and at sea. I have been in danger from people who pretended they were believers.
Let the person who does right keep on doing what is right.
Then Joseph bought some linen cloth. He took down the body and wrapped it in the linen. He put it in a tomb cut out of rock. Then he rolled a stone against the entrance to the tomb.
So you will be considered worthy to enter God’s kingdom.
On his head are many crowns.
This happened on a Sabbath day.
Then he was placed outside. But Pharaoh’s daughter took him home. She brought him up as her own son.
Their teeth were like lions’ teeth.
Those who have not shown mercy will not receive mercy when they are judged
I told Abrham I was OK.
It told lies about God and about the place where God lives
In fact no one understands them What they say by the Spirit remains a mystery
The man who had been healed by the miracle was over fourty years old
I will raise them up on the last day
Now we see only a dim likeness of things It is as if we were seeing them in a foggy mirror
When Jesus came into Peter’s house, he saw Peter’s mother-in-law. She was lying in bed. She had a fever.
Paul Goes to Corinth
The Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.
One day Peter and John were going up to the temple. It was three o’clock in the afternoon. It was the time for prayer.
Tell him what you have seen and heard
He is always with me.
And I will continue with all of you to help you grow in your faith
He learned that Jesus was from Herod’s area of authority. So Pilate sent Jesus to Herod. At that time Herod was also in Jerusalem.
“Who can ever know what the Lord is thinking?
They held the name of the Lord Jesus in high honor.
But Scripture has locked up everything under the control of sin It does so in order that what was promised might be given to those who believe The promise comes through faith in Jesus Christ
But it is only a copy and shadow of what is in heaven.
After he had sent them away, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. Later that night, he was there alone.
I speak the truth in Christ.
Some people have gone astray without knowing it He is able to deal gently with them He can do that because he himself is weak
After the crowd had been sent outside Jesus went in He took the girl by the hand and she got up
Simon Peter motioned to that disciple. He said, “Ask Jesus which one he means.”
I had seen an angel standing on the sea and on the land.
But the ship hit a sandbar. So the front of it got stuck and wouldn’t move. The back of the ship was broken to pieces by the pounding of the waves.
You know what God wants You agree with what is best because the law teaches you
What we are is plain to God
“Do not let your hearts be troubled.
They went through it as if it were dry land The Egyptians tried to do it also But they drowned
Many witnesses lied about him. But their stories did not agree.
By the Spirits power we call God Abba Abba means Father
I didn’t preach my message with clever and compelling words. Instead, my preaching showed the Holy Spirit’s power.
The man who saw it has been a witness about it
They arrived at Ephesus. There Paul said goodbye to Priscilla and Aquila.
Later Jesus was having dinner at Matthews house Many tax collectors and sinners came They ate with Jesus and his disciples
Then the Lord spoke to him.You Pharisees clean the outside of the cup
Jesus said to her, “Mary.”
“Are you the Prophet we’ve been expecting?” they asked.
May more and more grace and peace be given to you. May they come to you as you learn more about God and about Jesus our Lord?
But suppose we walk in the light, just as he is in the light. Then we share life with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his Son, makes us pure from all sin.
The next day the large crowd that had come for the feast heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem
We would have been like Gomorrah.”
Don’t think that I’m trying to scare you with my letters.
Then Peter and John placed their hands on them.
Hes younger than me
Doesn’t it want to find out what he is doing?”
Won’t they say you are out of your minds?
A time is coming when all who are in their graves will hear his voice.
They brought the donkey and the colt They placed their coats on them for Jesus to sit on
In the same way let your light shine so others can see it Then they will see the good things you do And they will bring glory to your Father who is in heaven
So don’t throw away your bold faith. It will bring you rich rewards.
Many Disciples Leave Jesus
The Father who sent me is himself a witness about me
They are turning their back on God. This same God gives you his Holy Spirit.
Stand up to him. Remain strong in what you believe. You know that you are not alone in your suffering.
Or suppose a king is about to go to war aainst another king
One of the people at the table with Jesus heard him say those things. So he said to Jesus, “Blessed is the one who will eat at the feast in God’s kingdom.”
The cherubim were above the ark God showed his glory there The cherubim spread their wings over the place where sin was paid for But we cant say everything about these things now
But others preach about Christ to help me in my work
They praised God. They were respected by all the people.
You have started living a new life Your knowledge of how that life should have the Creators likeness is being made new
After they prayed the place where they were meeting was shaken
John is a witness to everything he saw.
You have seen me, and you still do not believe.
Others thought Jesus was talking about giving something to poor people.
He was a Roman commander in the Italian Regiment
Then Paul spoke up for himself He said Ive done nothing wrong against the law of the Jews or against the temple Ive done nothing wrong against Caesar
“I have never eaten anything that is not pure and ‘clean.’ ”
They drank from the spiritual rock that went with them.
My body is real food.
Dear lady, I’m not writing you a new command.
There is one Lord, one faith and one baptism.
In the Law, Moses commanded us to kill such women by throwing stones at them.
But you are a mere human being. So who are you to talk back to God? Scripture says, “Can what is made say to the one who made it, ‘Why did you make me like this?’ ”
Now all of you will be able to hear him. King Agrippa, it will also be very good for you to hear him.
Then they sang a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives.
Now the law lays down a rule for the sons of Levi who become priests They must collect a tenth from the people
Because of his faith Abel was praised as a godly man.
Jesus took the man to one side, away from the crowd. He put his fingers into the man’s ears. Then he spit and touched the man’s tongue.
Jesus also gave them another example.
Then the woman fell to her knees in front of him. “Lord! Help me!” she said.
He spent the night praying to God
And he turned over their tables
In the same way the women must be worthy of respect
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I am an apostle of Christ Jesus, just as God our Savior commanded. Christ Jesus also commanded it. We have put our hope in him.
It gleamed like a very valuable jewel
But no human being can judge those who have the Spirit It is written
Jesus sent him home. He told him, “Don’t even go into the village.”
But the Holy Spirit brought him back to life.
They tempt new believers who are just escaping from the company of sinful people
There are already priests who offer the gifts required by the law.
It isn’t possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
A woman gave birth to him
Pauls Rights as an Apostle
These lights create shadows that move.
All who take part in the games train hard They do it to get a crown that will not last But we do it to get a crown that will last forever
“Hosanna to the Son of David!”
Jesus was God’s Son. But by suffering he learned what it means to obey.
So let us do all we can to live in peace And let us work hard to build up one another
Right away blood and water flowed out
But Jesus answered, “You give them something to eat.”
The disciples kept quiet about this. They didn’t tell anyone at that time what they had seen.
And that number .
Dear children remain joined to Christ Then when he comes we can be bold We will not be ashamed to meet him when he comes
By doing that, he set us free from all evil.
just as you have loved me
‘In him we live and move and exist.’ As some of your own poets have also said, ‘We are his children.’
You run
“What are you arguing with them about?” Jesus asked.
Then they will have plenty to take care of what you need
He was and he is and he will come
Then he sent them out to announce Gods kingdom
But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
Husbands, love your wives. Love them just as Christ loved the church.
Brothers and sisters, we are not afraid to enter the Most Holy Room. We enter boldly because of the blood of Jesus.
They have put their lives in danger for me. I am thankful for them. So are all the Gentile churches.
Dont let anyone fool you with worthless words People who say things like that arent obeying God He is angry with them
Your wife Elizabeth will have a child.
Perhaps they blame me for what I said when I was on trial. I shouted, ‘I believe that people will rise from the dead. That is why I am on trial here today.’ ”
But when you go without eating, put olive oil on your head. Wash your face.
The rain comes down The water rises The winds blow and beat against that house And it falls with a loud crash
Give praise to the God who is able to keep you from falling into sin.
Those days will be worse than any others from the time God created the world until now And there will never be any like them again
Did I fight wild animals in Ephesus with nothing more than human hopes? Then what have I gotten for it?
But you are rich!
If the whole body were an eye, how could it hear?
The one who sat there shone like jasper and ruby.
When he saw the crowds he felt deep concern for them They were treated badly and were helpless like sheep without a shepherd
Anyone who believes in me will live, even if they die.
Cosam was the son of Elmadam
Don’t destroy the work of God because of food.
So you should try very hard to add goodness to your faith To goodness add knowledge
“ ‘I know that the Lord is always with me.
The law didnt make anything perfect Now a better hope has been given to us That hope brings us near to God
That same day Jesus left the house and sat by the Sea of Galilee
I have told you these things many times before. Now I tell you again with tears in my eyes.
Mattathias was the son of Amos.
But Jesus said to his disciples, “Have them sit down in groups of about fiftyeach.”
I dont feel I have done anything wrong But that doesnt mean Im not guilty The Lord judges me
Our children should also expect this culture not to be destroyed።
“Yes,” she said. “That’s the price.”
God will bring Jesus back at a time that pleases him
Hes afraid of dogs
“At that time people will see the Son of Man coming in clouds. He will come with great power and glory.
No one who keeps on sinning has seen him or known him.
I'll show you the way.
“About nine o’clock in the morning he went out again. He saw others standing in the market doing nothing.
The Lord who rules over all
Why are the nations angry
So he became higher than the angels.
Who can separate us from Christs love Can trouble or hard times or harm or hunger Can nakedness or danger or war
The woman left her water jar and went back to the town. She said to the people,
Dear friend dont be like those who do evil
I planned to visit you on my way to Macedonia. I would have come back to you from there. Then you would have sent me on my way to Judea.
Settle the matter yourselves I will not be a judge of such things
If we say we don’t know him,he will also say he doesn’t know us.
There is someone else who is a witness in my favor. And I know that what he says about me is true.
Dont be like Cain He belonged to the evil one He murdered his brother And why did he murder him Because the things Cain had done were wrong But the things his brother had done were right
They marched across the whole earth. They surrounded the place where God’s holy people were camped.
So no one should separate what God has joined together.”
But what if these things dont describe someone at all Then that person cant see very well
Why do you act like youre better than they are
When I had mercy on you I heard you
Epaphras sends you greetings. Together with me, he is a prisoner because of Christ Jesus.
They wont love others They wont forgive others They will tell lies about people They will be out of control They will be wild They will hate what is good
At other times their thoughts find them not guilty.
Herod wanted to kill John But he was afraid of the people because they thought John was a prophet
All these people were still living by faith when they died.
But each one should build carefully.
So when I was angry, I made a promise.
Those who have victory will receive all this from me. I will be their God, and they will be my children.
Then they must keep their tongues from speaking evil.
Do not love the world or anything in it
Jesus entered the temple courtyard. While he was teaching there, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him. “By what authority are you doing these things?” they asked. “Who gave you this authority?”
Blessed are those whose hearts are pure.
Anyone who has accepted it has said Yes God is truthful
Two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in shining glory. Jesus and the two of them talked together.
Who can live through it
don’t let anyone lead you astray.
Jesus came as a human being
and wisdom
When you suffer be patient
One of the Jewish leaders spoke up His name was Caiaphas He was high priest at that time
He continues to live in you. So you don’t need anyone to teach you.
“Go.
When the ruler heard this, he became very sad. He was very rich.
So I spoke to Peter in front of them all. “You are a Jew,” I said.
So dont think you are better than the other branches
Pay everything you owe. But you can never pay back all the love you owe one another.
Certain people have secretly slipped in among you. Long ago it was written that they would be judged. They are ungodly people. They misuse the grace of our God as an excuse for sexual sins. They say no to Jesus Christ, our only Lord and King.
They are like wild waves of the sea. Their shame rises up like foam. They are like falling stars. God has reserved a place of very black darkness for them forever.
Keep reminding God’s people of these things. While God is watching, warn them not to argue about words. That doesn’t have any value. It only destroys those who listen.
I am sending this letter to you Gods holy people in Ephesus Because you belong to Christ Jesus you are faithful
Sit tight.
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me He said Come I will show you how the great prostitute will be punished She is the one who sits by many waters
These people will be from every tribe and nation,
Twenty-four other thrones surrounded that throne
I noticed a pattern.
The first heaven and the first earth were completely gone.
When evening came Jesus arrived with the  disciples
I heard a loud voice from the throne.
They have left Gods way They have wandered off They follow the way of Balaam son of Beor He loved to get paid for doing his evil work
They take pride in what they have and what they do.
He has been kind to our people oflong ago
That’s why “God accepted Abraham because he believed. So his faith made him right with God.”
They will tear others down
Even though you have not seen him, you love him.
But after I rise from the dead, I will go ahead of you into Galilee.”
In fact, they will do even greater things. That’s because I am going to the Father.
If the dead are not raised
The angel said, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul. You must go on trial in front of Caesar. God has shown his grace by sparing the lives of all those sailing with you.’
She cried out in pain because she was about to have a baby
And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit
Evil people and pretenders will go from bad to worse.
Jesus became a servant of the Jews. He did this so that the Gentiles might give glory to God for his mercy. It is written,
Then he said to them, “My soul is very sad. I feel close to death. Stay here. Keep watch with me.”
After the crowd had been sent outside, Jesus went in. He took the girl by the hand, and she got up.
Our natural bodies don’t last forever. They must be dressed with what does last forever. What dies must be dressed with what does not die.
The evil spirit shook the man wildly. Then it came out of him with a scream.
Our work is in danger of losing its good name. People’s faith in the temple of the great goddess Artemis will be weakened. Now she is worshiped all over Asia Minor and the whole world.
People did not accept him, but God chose him. God places the highest value on him.
He said to them, “But now if you have a purse, take it. And also take a bag. If you don’t have a sword, sell your coat and buy one.
He said How can Satan drive out Satan
It is the most important stone in the buildingThe one who trusts in him will never be put to shame
But be grown up in your thinking
Let us give him glory!
They loved praise from people more than praise from God
Two years passed Porcius Festus took the place of Felix
God planned that those he had chosen would become like his Son.
I am coming to see you Please dont make me be as bold as I expect to be toward some people They think that I live the way the people of this world live
Brothers and sisters, I am speaking to you who know the law. Don’t you know that the law has authority over someone only as long as they live?
I really dont sing
Gods grace has saved you because of your faith in Christ
So we will all have to explain to God the things we have done.
Still others asked, “How can the Messiah come from Galilee?
Stay away from opposing ideas that are falsely called knowledge.
I know what you did.
I want a girlfriend.
That is why he was given his crown.
As John’s disciples were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John. He said, “What did you go out into the desert to see? Tall grass waving in the wind?
Then it will truly be love.
We cant say it didnt happen
Jesus Rises From the Dead
You have come to Jesus
They follow their own evil desires
Anyone who loves their father or mother more than me is not worthy of me Anyone who loves their son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me
Where are the great thinkers of our time?
Then the master will cut him to pieces. He will send him to the place where pretenders go. There people will weep and grind their teeth.
Their good works continue forever
May your whole spirit,
When Jesus heard this he was amazed at the commander
But my mind does not pray
He committed suicide.
We worked even though we have the right to receive help from you We did it in order to be a model for you to follow
But let us go to him.”
You judge by human standards. I don’t judge anyone.
There Christ sits far above all who rule and have authority He also sits far above all powers and kings He is above every name that is appealed to in this world and in the world to come
Would I have told you that I would prepare a place for you there?
Others plant to please the Holy Spirit From the Spirit they will harvest eternal life
Yes you are our glory and our joy
It fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water
No one on the housetop should go down into the house to take anything out
Listen
The crowd saw what Paul had done They shouted in the Lycaonian language
When Moses heard this, he escaped to Midian. He lived there as an outsider.
Outside the city are those who are impure
Philip answered him, “Suppose we were able to buy enough bread for each person to have just a bite. That would take more than half a year’s pay!”
Or,
Eliakim was the son of Melea.
They made a charge against Paul. They said, “This man is talking people into worshiping God in wrong ways. Those ways are against the law.”
So the people did not agree about who Jesus was.
We will meet the Lord in the air And we will be with him forever
They will be shown mercy
But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins. They were worth only a few pennies.
God did all this to prove that he does what is right He is a God of mercy So he did not punish for their sins the people who lived before Jesus lived
But the Lord is faithful
Is anyone among you wise and understanding? That person should show it by living a good life. A wise person isn’t proud when they do good deeds.
he will forgive our sins He will forgive every wrong thing we have done He will make us pure
Someone might argue, “When I lie, it becomes clearer that God is truthful. It makes his glory shine more brightly. Why then does he find me guilty of sin?”
Arent two sparrows sold for only a penny But not one of them falls to the ground outside your Fathers care
He saw Jesus standing at God’s right hand.
Why do you want to hear it again
“What I’m about to tell you is true. Some who are standing here will not die before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.”
or hunger?
I don’t say this to judge you. I have told you before that you have an important place in our hearts. We would live or die with you.
“If your enemies are hungry, give them food to eat.
But we didnt use that right No we have put up with everything We didnt want to keep the good news of Christ from spreading
Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask, and you will receive what you ask for. Then your joy will be complete.
Dont just listen to the word You fool yourselves if you do that You must do what it says
Now then, when the dead rise, whose wife will she be? All seven brothers were married to her.”
But each person is tempted by their own evil desires. These desires lead them on and drag them away.
Here is the message we have heard from him and announce to you.
They didnt know that Gods power makes people right with himself They tried to get right with God in their own way They didnt do it in Gods way
If anyone serves,
They shouldn’t wear clothes that cost a lot of money.
They cant understand the truth They are separated from the life of God Thats because they dont know him
That means one person. And that one person is Christ.
God raised up Jesus who serves him God sent him first to you He did it to bless you He wanted to turn each of you from your evil ways
In this way he was made perfect. Eternal salvation comes from him. He saves all those who obey him.
But that doesnt mean Im not guilty
Hi Do you work here
Paul and Silas Arrive in Thessalonica
I ran away in a hurry
The first boy born in every family must be set apart for the Lord
As it is you brag You brag about the evil plans your pride produces
Paul finished speaking. Then he got down on his knees with all of them and prayed.
You have kept my command to remain strong in the faith no matter what happens So I will keep you from the time of suffering
So Aeneas got up right away
I will only brag about what I have done with that opportunity. This opportunity for serving also includes you.
Obey it until our Lord Jesus Christ appears Obey it completely Then no one can find fault with it or you
Do not let your hearts be troubled
So the disciples did what Jesus had told them to do. They prepared the Passover meal.
And they praised God because of me
Life is not made up of how much a person has.”
But each person’s work will be shown for what it is. On judgment day it will be brought to light. It will be put through fire. The fire will test how good each person’s work is.
Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
They must not say things that harm others.
The promises were given to Abraham They were also given to his seed Scripture does not say and to seeds That means many people It says And to your seed  That means one person And that one person is Christ
I retired last year
But those offerings remind people of their sins every year
You do not honor me
they did not come only because of Jesus They also came to see Lazarus After all Jesus had raised him from the dead
God appointed him to be the high priest, just like Melchizedek.
My Father has given all things to me The Father is the only one who knows the Son And the only ones who know the Father are the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to make him known
Some of the Pharisees said Jesus has not come from God
Then Simon Peter came along behind him
Some of the Pharisees said
If they do that their lives wont turn out to be useless
How terrible it will be for the world because of the things that cause people to sin! Things like that must come. But how terrible for the person who causes them!
Blessed are those who are sad
He is coming to judge everyone. He is coming to sentence all of them. He will judge them for all the ungodly acts they have done. They have done them in ungodly ways. He will sentence ungodly sinners for all the things they have said to oppose him.”
We are God’s creation. He created us to belong to Christ Jesus. Now we can do good works. Long ago God prepared these works for us to do.
So the disciples did what Jesus had told them to do They prepared the Passover meal
Then some teachers of the law said to themselves This fellow is saying a very evil thing
“Abraham is our father,” they answered.
A lot of stuff that we can't decide as much as this is gone, a lot of machine is gone።
You use all kinds of tricks Wont you ever stop twisting the right ways of the Lord
The people stood there watching The rulers even made fun of Jesus They said He saved others Let him save himself if he is Gods Messiah the Chosen One
Peter said, “I don’t have any silver or gold.
The shepherds returned. They gave glory and praise to God.
They did that to make themselves pure and “clean.” Each jar could hold twenty to thirty gallons.
First here is what people are telling me When you come together as a church you take sides And in some ways I believe it
Scripture says Thats why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife The two will become one
In everything do to others what you would want them to do to you This is what is written in the Law and in the Prophets
No one takes it from me. I give it up myself. I have the authority to give it up.
May you have peace
Life is not made up of how much a person has
The people were amazed. Those who could not speak were speaking. The disabled were made well. Those not able to walk were walking. Those who were blind could see. So the people praised the God of Israel.
Aquila and Priscilla greet you warmly because of the Lord’s love. So does the church that meets in their house.
Again here is what I ask
Amen Come Lord Jesus
Our natural bodies dont last forever They must be dressed with what does last forever What dies must be dressed with what does not die
He died
Paul stood up in front of them Men he said
What the law says it says to those who are ruled by the law Its purpose is to shut every mouth and make the whole world accountable to God
We know that when God judges those who do evil things, he judges fairly.
Nathan was the son of David
They passed the first and second guards. Then they came to the Iron Gate leading to the city. It opened for them by itself.
They fell down on their faces in front of the throne and worshiped God
They got up and returned at once to Jerusalem There they found the  disciples and those with them They were all gathered together
If you make their work a heavy load it wont do you any good
I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven. What you lock on earth will be locked in heaven. What you unlock on earth will be unlocked in heaven.”
I saw heaven standing open There in front of me was a white horse Its rider is called Faithful and True When he judges or makes war he is always fair
Be careful of how you live and what you believe Never give up Then you will save yourself and those who hear you
When the Son of Man comes he will be like the lightning It flashes and lights up the sky from one end to the other
Is it hard for a camel to go through the eye of a needle It is even harder for someone who is rich to enter Gods kingdom
Then he turned toward the woman. He said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give me any water to wash my feet. But she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
It is an important city in that part of Macedonia
Our hope is certain It is something for the soul to hold on to It is strong and secure It goes all the way into the Most Holy Room behind the curtain
You know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. Jesus went around doing good. He healed all who were under the devil’s power. God was with him.
Greet one another with a holy kiss
The disciples also had a few small fish Jesus gave thanks for them too He told the disciples to pass them around
Im sureI will be brave enough Now as always Christ will receive glory because of what happens to me He will receive glory whether I live or die
That’s how we can tell the difference between the Spirit of truth and the spirit of lies.
The body that is planted does not last forever
I know what its like not to have what I need I also know what its like to have more than I need
The next day he took out two silver coins. He gave them to the owner of the inn. ‘Take care of him,’ he said. ‘When I return,
I'm cold.
This news made all the believers very glad.
He is the only one you should serve
Then the man who had received one bag of gold came Master he said I knew that you are a hard man You harvest where you have not planted You gather crops where you have not scattered seed
“Suppose one of you has a servant plowing or looking after the sheep. And suppose the servant came in from the field. Will you say to him, ‘Come along now and sit down to eat’?
They replied Some say John the Baptist Others say Elijah Still others say Jeremiah or one of the prophets
You put such heavy loads on people that they can hardly carry them.
The angel said Send to Joppa for Simon Peter
That is why it has been called the Field of Blood to this day.
You heard about Christ and were taught about life in him
We are being treated badly.
You think that the law gives you all knowledge and truth.
Because you are his children God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts He is the Holy Spirit By his power we call God Abba Abba means Father
I have come to turn sons against their fathers
I haven't decided yet.
He told them, “The harvest is huge,
The result of sins control in our lives is clear
But how terrible it will be for you who are rich
As far as being committed is concerned I opposed and attacked the church As far as keeping the law is concerned I kept it perfectly
The man with two bags of gold also came Master he said you trusted me with two bags of gold See I have earned two more
All of you are children of the light You are children of the day We dont belong to the night We dont belong to the darkness
I have already said it Now I will say it again
The person who says no to the Son doesnt belong to the Father
He is above every name that is appealed to in this world and in the world to come.
But God created those foods. So people who believe and know the truth should receive them and give thanks for them.
Should I take what belongs to Christ and join it to a prostitute Never
Timothy I am sending you this letter You are my true son in the faith
It is written, “I have made you a father of many nations.”  God considers Abraham to be our father. The God that Abraham believed in gives life to the dead. Abraham’s God also creates things that did not exist before.
Jesus went all over Galilee. There he taught in the synagogues. He preached the good news of God’s kingdom. He healed every illness and sickness the people had.
Peter Says He Does Not Know Jesus
Then I will tell them clearly I never knew you Get away from me you who do evil
loud the words of this prophecy.
I'm fine.
All who take part in the games train hard.
In the law it is written
The Sign of Jonah
So remain strong in the faith.
They are not turning their back on us.
The time will come when people won’t put up with true teaching.
All who follow wisdom prove that wisdom is right
After the shepherds had seen him they told everyone They reported what the angel had said about this child
Brothers and sisters you should want to prophesy
Teachings for Living as Christians
Herod had arrested John. He had tied him up and put him in prison because of Herodias. She was the wife of Herod’s brother Philip.
Dear friends you are outsiders and those who wander in this world So Im asking you not to give in to your sinful desires They fight against your soul
I, the elder, am writing this letter.I am sending it to you, my dear friend Gaius. I love you because of the truth.
As soon as Judas had taken the bread, he went out.
You have all renewed his spirit
I think Abrham  cant win
He will be handed over to the Gentiles They will make fun of him They will laugh at him and spit on him
And I wont ever do it
Come near to God
May the Lord fill your hearts with God’s love. May Christ give you the strength to go on?
The Lord Jesus will overthrow him with the breath of his mouth.
Here is how we know that God lives in us.
He will not change his mind. He has said,
When harvest time approached he sent his slaves to the renters He told the slaves to collect his share of the fruit
He asked, “What will you give me if I hand Jesus over to you?” So they counted out thirty silver coins for him.
You should mind your own business.
He didn’t need anyone to tell him what people are like. He already knew why people do what they do.
At the same time that Jesus did those signs, many of the Jewish leaders believed in him. But because of the Pharisees, they would not openly admit they believed. They were afraid they would be thrown out of the synagogue.
Then none of you will become stubborn You wont be fooled by sins tricks
But after I rise from the dead, I will go ahead of you into Galilee.”
So the body is not made up of just one part It has many parts
Blessed is the person who doesn’t feel guilty for what they do.
The Word was in the world. And the world was made through him. But the world did not recognize him.
Today I have become your Father
The Spirit led him into the desert.
The Believers Share Their Lives Together
I will use people who are not a nation to make you jealous
Before Jesus came, John preached that we should turn away from our sins and be baptized. He preached this to all Israel.
Scripture says, “Don’t fear what others say they will do to hurt you.
He claimed to be someone great
But they had no children because Elizabeth was not able to have any And they were both very old
Then they will make the teaching about God our Savior appealing in every way.
But he had no idea that what the angel was doing was really happening. He thought he was seeing a vision.
After Herod died Joseph had a dream while he was still in Egypt In the dream an angel of the Lord appeared to him
He entered the house of God and took the holy bread. He ate the bread that only priests were allowed to eat.
You should lead holy and godly lives
But they didn’t understand what this meant. That was because it was hidden from them. And they were afraid to ask Jesus about it.
So then, they will be your judges.
When I turned,
You claim to teach others, but you don’t even teach yourself!
Your riches have rotted.
And anyone who has extra food should do the same
Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives His disciples followed him
One day he called them together. He also called others who were in the same kind of business. “My friends,” he said, “you know that we make good money from our work.
As you know we never praised you if we didnt mean it We didnt put on a mask to cover up any sinful desire God is our witness that this is true
In this way, the words Jeremiah the prophet spoke came true. He had said,
I dont understand what I do I dont do what I want to do Instead I do what I hate to do
They must give freely They must be willing to share
So they asked Jesus to help her
He is a good man who worships God All the Jewish people respect him A holy angel told him to invite you to his house
You should not take advantage of your brother or sister.
Because of his faith, Moses was the first to keep the Passover Feast. He commanded the people of Israel to sprinkle blood on their doorways. He did it so that the destroying angel would not touch their oldest sons.
When the disciples heard this, they were terrified. They fell with their faces to the ground.
They leave a trail of harmful actions
There will be no more night They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun The Lord God will give them light They will rule for ever and ever
You have made this a better nation.
What he speaks is faithful and true.
I am the bread of life.
On his journey, Saul approached Damascus. Suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.
I want you to be wise about what is good.
His eyes are like blazing fire
When he arrived and saw what the grace of God had done, he was glad.
“Listen! Here is the meaning of the story of the farmer.
just as you do
Their king was the angel of the Abyss
Brothers and sisters be patient until the Lord comes See how the farmer waits for the land to produce its rich crop See how patient the farmer is for the fall and spring rains
Hate what is evil
I need a bigger box
Go and learn what this means I want mercy and not sacrifice I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me I have come to get sinners to follow me
Then Paul called one of the commanders. He said to him, “Take this young man to the commanding officer. He has something to tell him.”
We cant take anything out of it
you all together are that temple.
a wife should satisfy her husband’s needs.
Timothy will visit you. Make sure he has nothing to worry about while he is with you. He is doing the work of the Lord, just as I am.
Since we have that kind of hope, we are very bold.
You yourselves are witnesses that I said,
At the same time the  elders fall down and worship the one who sits on the throne He lives for ever and ever
Not said።
The governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the palace, which was called the Praetorium. All the rest of the soldiers gathered around him.
He was buried He was raised from the dead on the third day just as Scripture said he would be
What Makes People “Unclean”?
“Sir,” the woman said, “you don’t have anything to get water with.
He says,
They crossed over the lake and landed at Gennesaret.
“How terrible for you authorities on the law!
So Festus talked with the king about Paul’s case.
As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him
In just one hour you have been destroyed
It had eyes even under its wings.
Most of the people didn’t even know why they were there.
In a large house there are things made out of gold and silver.
When I was with you and needed something I didnt because you any expense The believers who came from Macedonia gave me what I needed
He wrapped a towel around his waist
“What is written in the Law?”
In the sixth month after Elizabeth had become pregnant God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth a town in Galilee
Many people live like enemies of the cross of Christ
Show us which of these two you have chosen
Someone else may think they have reasons to trust in these things But I have even more
One of Cretes own prophets has a saying
And you can be just as sure that everyone will kneel down in front of me
They are already harvesting the crop for eternal life.
So you are no longer outsiders and strangers
See you.
But they went out and spread the news They talked about him all over that area
The believers gathered around Paul Then he got up and went back into the city
That’s because they are like wild animals that can’t think for themselves. Instead, they do what comes naturally to them.
Jesus turned to the Pharisees and the authorities on the law He asked them Is it breaking the Law to heal on the Sabbath day
They would find him even though he is not far from any of us
He comforts us in all our troubles. Now we can comfort others when they are in trouble. We ourselves receive comfort from God.
I saw another angel He was flying high in the air
Moses thought his own people would realize that God was using him to save them.
Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Christ
We have lived with honor and godly honesty
An angel of the Lord appeared to them
But the Spirit gives birth to spirit
But you say that whoever obeys your word will never die
Im fine
They were yours
Festus said King Agrippa and everyone else here take a good look at this man
Finally the woman died too
Their loss brings riches to the Gentiles.
Celebrating the Lords Supper in the Right Way
Brothers and sisters, we should always thank God for you. The Lord loves you. That’s because God chose you as the first to be saved. Salvation comes through the Holy Spirit’s work. He makes people holy. It also comes through believing the truth.
I used to play tennis
God has placed each part in the body just as he wanted it to be.
They were chosen together with you.
If I pray in another language, my spirit prays. But my mind does not pray.
You have made yourselves fat like cattle that will soon be butchered
When evening came Jesus said to his disciples Lets go over to the other side of the lake
You have come to Jesus He is the go-between of a new covenant You have come to the sprinkled blood It promises better things than the blood of Abel
So don’t judge anything before the appointed time. Wait until the Lord returns.
One of you says I follow Paul Another says I follow Apollos Arent you acting like ordinary human beings
He doesnt live in temples built by human hands
But still you people do not accept what we say
But what does Scripture say
It is for people who tell lies in courtIt is for those who are a witness to things that arent true
He placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb. Then he went away.
The good news has to be preached to all nations before the end comes
So I plan to see you when I go to Spain I hope to visit you while I am passing through
Then Jesus went up on a mountainside. There he sat down with his disciples.
“Be sure that you complete the work the Lord gave you to do.”
The house was filled with the sweet smell of the perfume
Jesus Walks on the Water
And only a few people went into the ark.
The apostles watched until a cloud hid him from their sight.
Greet Philologus Julia Nereus and his sister Greet Olympas and all of the Lords people who are with them
They destroy the faith of some people
I am afraid of dogs.
“ ‘The Lord said to my Lord,
The people living on earth were drunk with the wine of her terrible sins.”
Also give my greetings to Nympha and the church that meets in her house.
No one can question the truth.
All the people were amazed.
And,
Now we see only a dim likeness of things. It is as if we were seeing them in a foggy mirror.
All we can do is to wait in fear for God to judge His blazing fire will burn up his enemies
Gods promise would be worthless
Can light and darkness be friends
Is this your son they asked Is this the one you say was born blind
How dare you talk like that to us
“ ‘We played the flute for you.But you didn’t dance.We sang a funeral song.But you didn’t become sad.’
Thats because I hear about your love for all Gods people I also hear about your faith in the Lord Jesus
God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose. So they agreed to give the beast their royal authority. They will give him this authority until God’s words come true.
It was heard the week that they said they were going to take the university entrance exam for twety times saying they would not surrender።
She was always doing good and helping poor people.
Even though he was rich, he became poor to help you. Because he became poor, you can become rich.
Then he returned to the disciples He said to them Are you still sleeping and resting Look The hour has come The Son of Man is about to be handed over to sinners
It will bear a lot of fruit But what should I choose I dont know
They talked to one another about it. They said, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will ask, ‘Why didn’t you believe him?’
Jesus Is Lord of the Sabbath Day
“Whoever listens to you listens to me. Whoever does not accept you does not accept me. But whoever does not accept me does not accept the one who sent me.”
They dragged him out of the city They began to throw stones at him to kill him
God considers us to be the pleasing smell that Christ is spreading He is spreading it among people who are being saved and people who are dying
To godliness add kindness for one another And to kindness for one another add love
I am warning everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book. Suppose someone adds anything to them. Then God will add to that person the plagues told about in this book.
We were comforted not only when he came but also by the comfort you had given him
God gave Christ as a sacrifice to pay for sins through the spilling of his blood So God forgives the sins of those who have faith
As Johns disciples were leaving Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John He said What did you go out into the desert to see Tall grass waving in the wind
He will be able to prove that people who oppose it are wrong
As far as being committed is concerned I opposed and attacked the church
I am not saying I will ask the Father instead of you asking him
Whose shirt is this?
So be careful how you listen. Whoever has something will be given more. Whoever has nothing, even what they think they have will be taken away from them.”
The Spirit of the Lord is on me
Isn’t this the carpenter? Isn’t this Mary’s son? Isn’t this the brother of James, Joseph, Judas and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” They were not pleased with him at all.
Jesus Chooses His First Disciples
They might turn, and then I would heal them.’
He wants all people to be saved He wants them to come to know the truth
So Judas threw the money into the temple and left. Then he went away and hanged himself.
Your riches have rotted Moths have eaten your clothes
Jesus Mother and Brothers
Jesus was aware that his disciples were complaining about his teaching. So he said to them,
I will write the name of my God on them I will write the name of the city of my God on them
Meanwhile a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there so they came
The younger son spoke to his father He said Father give me my share of the family property So the father divided his property between his two sons
The change of priestly system was made with a promise. Others became priests without any promise.
It doesnt happen only because they believe
We have been saying that God accepted Abraham’s faith.
We should not commit sexual sins as some of them did In one day twety three thoused of them died
He was hoping that Paul would offer him some money to let him go So he often sent for Paul and talked with him
Three times I was beaten with sticks
When they arrived at Antioch they gathered the church together They reported all that God had done through them They told how he had opened a way for the Gentiles to believe
It is written that
And what about you, Capernaum? Will you be lifted up to the heavens? No! You will go down to the place of the dead.
Circumcision and uncircumcision dont mean anything
There has never been an earthquake as terrible as this
Jesus left the synagogue and went to the home of Simon. At that time, Simon’s mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever. So they asked Jesus to help her.
“When I was angry, I made a promise.
The officers reported this to the judges
We are being punished fairly. We are getting just what our actions call for. But this man hasn’t done anything wrong.”
Dont you think Scripture has a reason for saying this
Are they Abrahams children So am I
I will appoint my two witnesses.
then that person truly loves God
if someone else comes in his own name, you will accept him.
But by the Spirits power you can put to death the sins you commit Then you will live
So many people gathered that there was no room left. There was not even room outside the door. And Jesus preached the word to them.
While Jesus was still speaking some people came from the house of Jairus He was the synagogue leader Your daughter is dead they said Why bother the teacher anymore
“Where is your faith?” he asked his disciples.
There are different kinds of gifts But they are all given to believers by the same Spirit
I looked and there in front of me was a pale horse
Many people in the crowd were whispering about him Some said He is a good man
My blood is real drink.
They will love money.
But Philip announced the good news of God’s kingdom and the name of Jesus Christ. So men and women believed and were baptized.
Then I heard a voice speaking to me. ‘Get up, Peter,’ the voice said. ‘Kill and eat.’
I cant tell you now
Then the day of Unleavened Bread came. That was the time the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed.
It is written that Abraham had two sons.
But God warned them in a dream not to go back to Herod. So they returned to their country on a different road.
But you must be happy with what you have
You made statues of those gods to worship.
Death where is the victory you thought you had
Now I am asking you to eat some food You need it to live
Then you will not do what your desires controlled by sin want you to do.
They threw stones at Paul They thought he was dead so they dragged him out of the city
They refuse to obey him
Our faith has won the battle for us.
See my hands.
Our people have always worshiped on this mountain. But you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem.”
Or what about the  people in Siloam? They died when the tower fell on them. Do you think they were more guilty than all the others living in Jerusalem?
Then I could see
He was blessed by God’s grace.
Is It Right to Pay the Royal Tax to Caesar?
On the Sabbath day he taught the people
I give thanks to God who saves me. He saves me through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Jesus mother and brothers came and stood outside They sent someone in to get him
By the law I died as far as the law is concerned I died so that I might live for God
Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he said, “Why do you have evil thoughts in your hearts?
May grace is with you all.
There some people brought a man to Jesus The man was deaf and could hardly speak They begged Jesus to place his hand on the man
Silas, Timothy and I preached to you about the Son of God, Jesus Christ.
Then he went a short distance away from them. There he got down on his knees and prayed.
power belong to our God.
In fact we do just the opposite We present the truth plainly
Later, Jesus knew that everything had now been finished. He also knew that what Scripture said must come true. So he said, “I am thirsty.”
Suppose someone claims to love God but hates a brother or sister. Then they are a liar. They don’t love their brother or sister, whom they have seen. So they can’t love God, whom they haven’t seen.
He became hungry He wanted something to eat
That is what the people of long ago were praised for
I will give my life for you
Instead I hope to spend some time with you if the Lord allows it
He is the man Christ Jesus
Dear friends, you are outsiders and those who wander in this world. So I’m asking you not to give in to your sinful desires. They fight against your soul.
He blessed them greatly while they were in Egypt
What the law says, it says to those who are ruled by the law. Its purpose is to shut every mouth and make the whole world accountable to God.
Even so I am glad
“Teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to receive eternal life?”
You will become pregnant and give birth to a son. You must call him Jesus.
Some people are worried about how things look on the outside They are trying to force you to be circumcised They do it for only one reason They dont want to suffer by being connected with the cross of Christ
The Pharisees and the teachers of the law began to think Who is this fellow who says such an evil thing
They will be comforted
I now serve the good news because God gave me his grace. His power is at work in me.
God accepts their faith So their faith makes them right with him
Whoever thinks that one day is special does so to honor the Lord.
They called out to the mountains and rocks, “Fall on us! Hide us from the face of the one who sits on the throne! Hide us from the anger of the Lamb!
He lives in light that no one can get close to
He said to him You are a child of the devil You are an enemy of everything that is right You cheat people
One day about three o’clock in the afternoon he had a vision. He saw clearly an angel of God. The angel came to him and said, “Cornelius!”
We died with Christ So we believe that we will also live with him
Rules for Choosing Leaders and Deacons
Evil people and pretenders will go from bad to worse
Put on all of Gods armor Then you can remain strong against the devils evil plans
So those who preach the good news should also receive their living from their work. That is what the Lord has commanded.
Put on the helmet of salvation
The royal official said Sir come down before my child dies
May more and more grace and peace be given to you May they come to you as you learn more about God and about Jesus our Lord
We should not commit sexual sins, as some of them did. In one day twety three thoused of them died.
Then I will go to the one who sent me.
May you have power together with the entire Lords holy people to understand Christs love May you know how wide and long and high and deep it is
He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet.
Later I returned to Damascus
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin I will make that person a pillar in the temple of my God
I do not get rid of the grace of God. What if a person could become right with God by obeying the law? Then Christ died for nothing!
The leader must also be respected by those who are outside the church Then he will not be put to shame He will not fall into the devils trap
Then the world will believe that you have sent me
Be shepherds of Gods church He bought it with his own blood
From there he traveled all around. He preached the good news in all the towns. Finally he arrived in Caesarea.
Have nothing to do with wild parties and dont get drunk
Then the end will come after Christ destroys all rule authority and power Then he will hand over the kingdom to God the Father
Be like babies as far as evil is concerned.
The time has come to judge the dead.
Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Christ.
So the Jewish leaders said to the man who had been healed It is the Sabbath day The law does not allow you to carry your mat
Not everyone in Abraham’s family line is really his child. Not at all! Scripture says, “Your family line will continue through Isaac.”
For fourhundred years your family after you will be strangers in a country not their own
They wanted to put the apostles to death.
Get rid of the old yeast. Then you can be like a new batch of dough without yeast. That is what you really are. That’s because Christ, our Passover Lamb, has been offered up for us.
‘And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.’ ”
That is where Christ is. He is sitting at God’s right hand.
I myself am a man who is under authority.
Paul entered the synagogue. There he spoke boldly for three months. He gave good reasons for believing the truth about God’s kingdom.
If I pray in another language my spirit prays But my mind does not pray
I completely expect and hope that I wont be ashamed in any way
The city does not need the sun or moon to shine on it Gods glory is its light and the Lamb is its lamp
Certain people have secretly slipped in among you.
When that day comes, you will ask for things in my name.
Many people in the crowd were whispering about him. Some said, “He is a good man.”
So when you come together it is not the Lords Supper you eat
They have suffered a great deal But in their suffering their joy was more than full
But when you ask, you must believe. You must not doubt.
His speech moved us
How can they believe in him unless they hear about him?
Then by Gods grace I will rise from the dead
But we preach about Christ and his death on the cross
He has scattered those who are proud in their deepest thoughts.
But I will punish the nation that makes them slaves,’ God said. ‘After that, they will leave that country and worship me here.’
“I will use people who are not a nation to make you jealous.
“What is truth?” Pilate replied. Then Pilate went out again to the Jews gathered there. He said, “I find no basis for any charge against him.
So I want the men in every place to pray. I want them to lift up holy hands. I don’t want them to be angry when they pray. I don’t want them to argue.
Change your laughter to mourning
I have worked very hard
Speak and act like people who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom.
You shouldn’t stop giving yourselves to each other. You might possibly do this when you both agree to it. And you should only agree to it to give yourselves time to pray. Then you should come together again. In that way, Satan will not tempt you when you can’t control yourselves.
People who say things like that show that they are looking for a country of their own.
Come out of her my people
Because of the commandment, sin became totally sinful.
I’m like a gate. Anyone who enters through me will be saved. They will come in and go out. And they will find plenty of food.
You have some books.
But what does Scripture say?
You have some strange ideas weve never heard before
I am very pleased that you are familiar with Jewish ways. You know the kinds of things they argue about. So I beg you to be patient as you listen to me.
Judas was in charge of the money So some of the disciples thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the feast
You dont want to be afraid of those in authority do you
Be wise in the way you act toward outsiders Make the most of every opportunity
The sun rises. Its burning heat dries up the plants.
So what should I do?
But Eves mind was tricked by the snakes clever lies And heres what Im afraid of Your minds will also somehow be led astray They will be led away from your true and pure love for Christ
When Jesus returned, a crowd welcomed him. They were all expecting him.
Then who can sentence us to death?
I had the understanding of a child
I will show wonders in the heavens above
Then he said, “Write this down. You can trust these words. They are true.”
All at once the prison doors flew open.
But after the three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered the witnesses. They both stood up. Terror struck those who saw them.
Is it my business to judge those outside the church? Aren’t you supposed to judge those inside the church?
He called out in a loud voice to the four angels. They had been allowed to harm the land and the sea.
When they come from the market, they do not eat unless they wash. And they follow many other teachings. For example, they wash cups, pitchers, and kettles in a special way.
But each one of us has received a gift of grace These gifts are given to us by Christ
The free woman gave birth to the other one
The church follows the lead of Christ In the same way wives should follow the lead of their husbands in everything
Those who were tending the pigs ran off. They went into the town and reported all this. They told the people what had happened to the men who had been controlled by demons.
Remember those earlier days after you received the light
That’s because the darkness is passing away. And the true light is already shining.
How long will you wait to judge those who live on the earth
So Joseph got up He took the child and his mother Mary back to the land of Israel
Then he turned toward the woman.
He got up and was baptized.
Are you jealous Are you concerned only about getting ahead Then your life will be a mess You will be doing all kinds of evil things
But Jesus said to them, “I have shown you many good works from the Father. Which good work are you throwing stones at me for?”
His disciples answered him. “There is nothing here,” they said. “Where could we get enough bread to feed this large crowd?”
How were you less important than the other churches? The only difference was that I didn’t cause you any expense. Forgive me for that wrong!
They were given the promises
Certainly not about the Lords Supper
Jesus had not yet joined them.
Michael didn’t dare to judge the devil. He didn’t say the devil was guilty of saying evil things.
He is the one written about in Scripture It says I will send my messenger ahead of youHe will prepare your way for you
At sunset, people brought to Jesus all who were sick.
The Pharisee who had invited Jesus saw this. He said to himself, “If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him. He would know what kind of woman she is. She is a sinner!”
Then Peter invited the men into the house to be his guests
Here is what God says about the Son.
In addition whom do we deal with
“Then things will go well with you. You will live a long time on the earth.”
Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children.
May the Lord give you strength in your hearts. Then you will be holy and without blame in the sight of our God and Father. May that be true when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones.
But God is faithful and fair. If we confess our sins, he will forgive our sins. He will forgive every wrong thing we have done. He will make us pure.
People great or small
It's a good time to suggest that the sun has been pushed away by the youth's moment of freedom and darkness beyond its religious message for thick play።
Then the apostles gathered around Jesus and asked him a question Lord they said is you going to give the kingdom back to Israel now
Before he sailed he had his hair cut off at Cenchreae He did this because he had made a promise to God
And anyone who wants to be first must be your slave.
There was not enough food for all Egypt and Canaan This brought great suffering
So be very careful how you live
Jesus replied, “Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah! No mere human showed this to you. My Father in heaven showed it to you.
The secrets of their hearts will be brought out into the open They will fall down and worship God They will exclaim God is really here among you
“I am,” said Jesus. “And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One. You will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven.”
They were asking, “Where is he?”
Jesus said Let the little children come to me Dont keep them away The kingdom of heaven belongs to people like them
God told me to make clear to everyone how the mystery came about In times past it was kept hidden in the mind of God who created all things
He has been kind to our people oflong ago.
And she spoke about the child to all who were looking forward to the time when Jerusalem would be set free
Judah was the son of Joseph
So they motioned to their partners in the other boat to come and help them
May his home be deserted
Then you will not take part in her sins
A third of the stars were struck
The Lord has blessed you in a special way
Then the four living creatures and the  elders fell down in front of the Lamb. Each one had a harp. They were holding golden bowls full of incense. They stand for the prayers of Go  d’s people.
Treat Everyone the Same
So this is what we preach, whether I or the other apostles who preached to you. And that is what you believed.
If anyone tries to harm them, fire comes from their mouths and eats up their enemies. This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die.
He longs for all of you. He is troubled because you heard he was sick.
I am a pure Hebrew
Gather Riches in Heaven
“They just pretend to be godly.
The other servants saw what had happened and were very angry. They went and told their master everything that had happened.
correct those I love
Then the man of sin will appear.
In fact, it is just the opposite. God has approved us to preach. He has trusted us with the good news.
We are being punished fairly We are getting just what our actions call for But this man hasnt done anything wrong
So the God who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your bodies
Abraham had held on tightly to the promises. But he was about to offer his one and only son.
God answered Jesus because he truly honored God.
Another angel came out of the temple in heaven
And you have seen what the Lord finally did for him
He's a bit energetic.
They could now see again. Jesus strongly warned them, “Be sure that no one knows about this.”
They all came together regularly to pray.
Here are the words of Jesus, who is holy and true. He holds the key of David. No one can shut what he opens. And no one can open what he shuts. He says,
Then they went with him to the ship
When the Gentiles heard this they were glad
Then I said, ‘Here I am. It is written about me in the book.
Angels,
I want to go to Italy.
They do not understand. They can’t be trusted.
Should we keep on sinning so that Gods grace can increase
I am afraid of dogs
He has filled you with joy by pouring the sacred oil on your head
They told no lies
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples. He said, “I tell you, do not worry. Don’t worry about your life and what you will eat.
You also became believers in Christ. That happened when you heard the message of truth.
The master of that servant will come back on a day the servant doesn’t expect him. The master will return at an hour the servant doesn’t know. Then the master will cut him to pieces. He will send the servant to the place where unbelievers go.
But you must keep your faith steady and firm. You must not move away from the hope the good news holds out to you. This is the good news that you heard. It has been preached to every creature under heaven. I, Paul, now serve the good news.
“So they went to buy the oil. But while they were on their way, the groom arrived. The bridesmaids who were ready went in with him to the wedding dinner. Then the door was shut.
Many people refuse to obey God. All they do is talk about things that mean nothing. They try to fool others. No one does these things more than the circumcision group.
When they came up out of the water the Spirit of the Lord suddenly took Philip away
He is a witness so that you also may believe
If the whole body were an eye how could it hear If the whole body were an ear how could it smell
Here is the message we have heard from him and announce to you. God is light. There is no darkness in him at all.
You spoke against the Holy and Blameless One. You asked for a murderer to be set free instead.
At the place where Jesus was crucified, there was a garden. A new tomb was there. No one had ever been put in it before.
At that time his voice shook the earth But now he has promised Once more I will shake the earth I will also shake the heavens
If we die, we die to honor the Lord.
Then Jesus called for his disciples to come to him. He said, “I feel deep concern for these people. They have already been with me three days. They don’t have anything to eat. I don’t want to send them away hungry. If I do, they will become too weak on their way home.”
look inside.
The believers decided to provide help for the brothers and sisters living in Judea All of them helped as much as they could
She wondered what kind of greeting this could be
So the men lifted the lifeboat on board. Then they tied ropes under the ship itself to hold it together. They were afraid it would get stuck on the sandbars of Syrtis. So they lowered the sea anchor and let the ship be driven along.
But keep away from foolish disagreements. Don’t argue about family histories. Don’t make trouble. Don’t fight about what the law teaches. Don’t argue about things like that. It doesn’t do any good. It doesn’t help anyone.
Then this person is a liar
There they mixed wine with bitter spices and gave it to Jesus to drink. After tasting it, he refused to drink it.
“Put your sword back in its place,” Jesus said to him. “All who use the sword will die by the sword.
It was very early in the morning and still dark Jesus got up and left the house He went to a place where he could be alone There he prayed
The bread of God is the bread that comes down from heaven
It was the house of Titius Justus a man who worshiped God
He sent messengers on ahead. They went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him.
Jesus answered them Havent you ever read about what David did
Thats because they are like wild animals that cant think for themselves Instead they do what comes naturally to them
When Saul came to Jerusalem, he tried to join the believers.
And those God has planned for he has also appointed to be saved
When it was full, the fishermen pulled it up on the shore. Then they sat down and gathered the good fish into baskets. But they threw the bad fish away.
My brothers and sisters, can this kind of faith save them?
we will also live with him
It is written,
And thats not all We are full of joy even when we suffer We know that our suffering gives us the strength to go on
Often I have gone without sleep.
He isn't an American.
She turned toward him Then she cried out in the Aramaic language
but you can’t get what you want.
What if someone says in front of others that they know me I will also say in front of my Father who is in heaven that I know them
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he spoke to the man who could not walk. “Get up,” he said. “Take your mat and go home.”
Thats because what can be seen lasts only a short time
But Isaiah also speaks about what God says concerning Israel. God said,
They said
The world is guilty as far as sin is concerned. That’s because people do not believe in me.
May this house be blessed with peace
What do you think about the Messiah Whose son is he
God is certainly fair
He who was sitting on the throne said I am making everything new
But some Jews were making plans against him So he decided to go back through Macedonia
“The Holy Spirit will come to you.
But I will see you again Then you will be full of joy
Paul Gives a Final Command to Timothy
Christ is the first of those who rise from the dead
We dont live for ourselves only
So aren’t you following the ways of the world?
A spirit takes hold of him, and he suddenly screams. It throws him into fits so that he foams at the mouth. It hardly ever leaves him. It is destroying him.
Good!
So when those who were hired first came they expected to receive more But each of them also received the usual days pay
A new tomb was there No one had ever been put in it before
Lord in the beginning you made the earth secure You placed it on its foundations
Jesus’ disciples heard this. Many of them said,
But they grabbed the servant and beat him up. Then they sent him away with nothing.
We are dying but we continue to live
But the least important person in Gods kingdom is more important than John is
Then Jesus ordered him, “Don’t tellanyone. Go and show yourself to the priest. Offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded. It will be a witness to the priest and the people that you are ‘clean.’ ”
“No one lights a lamp and then hides it in a clay jar or puts it under a bed. Instead, they put it on a stand. Then those who come in can see its light.
Do What Is Good Because You Are Saved
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God
I try to please the one who sent me
They called Barnabas Zeus. Paul was the main speaker. So they called him Hermes.
No more than two or three people should speak in another language And they should speak one at a time
He is a good man who worships God. All the Jewish people respect him. A holy angel told him to invite you to his house.
The rest of their body is clean.
The next day the south wind came up The day after that we reached Petiole
Then what reward do I get? Here is what it is. I am able to preach the good news free of charge. And I can do this without using all my rights as a person who preaches the good news.
But they were broken off because they didnt believe
Judas knew the place. He was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies. Jesus had often met in that place with his disciples.
Jesus said, “These people from Galilee suffered greatly. Do you think they were worse sinners than all the other Galileans?
just as in all the churches of the Lord’s people.
God the Father gave him honor and glory. The voice of the Majestic Glory came to him. It said, “This is my Son, and I love him. I am very pleased with him.”
You made statues of those gods to worship
Im speaking like a fool
You also became believers in Christ. That happened when you heard the message of truth. It was the good news about how you could be saved. When you believed, he stamped you with an official mark. That official mark is the Holy Spirit that he promised.
When I return I wont spare those who sinned earlier
When the commander heard this, he went to the commanding officer and reported it. “What are you going to do?”
“I’m going out to fish,” Simon Peter told them. They said, “We’ll go with you.” So they went out and got into the boat. That night they didn’t catch anything.
John himself was not the light. He came only as a witness to the light.
“I am telling you now, before it happens. When it does happen, you will believe that I am who I am.
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed at the commander. Jesus turned to the crowd that was following him. He said, “I tell you, even in Israel I have not found anyone whose faith is so strong.”
What Happens to Believers Who Have Died
He also makes right with himself those who believe in Jesus.
Be understanding. Love one another.
But the Son of God came to destroy the devils work
The Widows Offering
Your bragging is not good It is like yeast Dont you know that just a little yeast makes the whole batch of dough rise
There is no fear in love. Instead, perfect love drives away fear. That’s because fear has to do with being punished. The one who fears does not have perfect love.
“Ask, and it will be given to you. Search, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you.
Everyone has heard that you obey God. So you have filled me with joy. I want you to be wise about what is good. And I want you to have nothing to do with what is evil.
Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man.
But later you will understand
So they answered Jesus, “We don’t know where John’s baptism came from.”
The living creatures give glory honor and thanks to the one who sits on the throne He lives for ever and ever
became rich because of her wealth
It is fine to be committed to something if the purpose is good
But John found fault with Herod, the ruler of Galilee, because of his marriage to Herodias.
So how can you say The Son of Man must be lifted up
Jesus told the crowd another story He said The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed Someone took the seed and planted it in a field
But I wont brag about myself I will brag only about how weak I am
Here is what I have been saying. As long as your own children are young, they are no different from slaves in your house. They are no different, even though they will own all the property.
But now faith in Christ has come So the law is no longer in charge of us
And pray for those who treat you badly
But why is God so kind to me Why has the mother of my Lord come to me
I tell that one Come and he comes
He took many prisonersHe gave gifts to his people
He sold the rights to what he would receive as the oldest son. He sold them for a single meal.
I John am the one who heard and saw these things
What if some people fall away from the faith? It won’t be possible to bring them back. It is true that they have seen the light. They have tasted the heavenly gift. They have shared in the Holy Spirit.
we never stop praying for you. Our God has chosen you.
“No one lights a lamp and then hides it in a clay jar or puts it under a bed.
By now it was dark.
Going on from there he saw two other brothers They were James son of Zebedee and his brother John They were in a boat with their father Zebedee As they were preparing their nets Jesus called out to them
Go said Jesus Your faith has healed you Right away he could see And he followed Jesus along the road
Jesus and his disciples came to Jericho They were leaving the city A large crowd was with them A blind man was sitting by the side of the road begging His name was Bartimaeus Bartimaeus means Son of Timaeus
The pain the people suffered was like the sting of a scorpion when it strikes.
Rise from the dead.
In anything he does he must not go too far
When a person is tempted, they shouldn’t say,
Pilate knew that the leaders wanted to get their own way. He knew this was why they had handed Jesus over to him.
We don’t want you to mourn, as other people do. They mourn because they don’t have any hope.
Jesus said Have the people sit down
Then we sailed on to Syria. We landed at Tyre. There our ship was supposed to unload.
We share very much in the sufferings of Christ So we also share very much in his comfort
About fourhundred people followed him.
Shout for joy and cry out loud,you who have never had labor pains.
Some of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law came to Jesus They said Teacher we want to see a sign from you
Get rid of sexual sins
The blind man said Rabbi I want to be able to see
Dear friends this is now my second letter to you I have written both of them as reminders I want to encourage you to think in a way that is pure
You used to be slaves of sin
No one will hear his voice in the streets
What if God chose to show his great anger? What if he chose to make his power known? But he put up with the people he was angry with. They were made to be destroyed.
They became blood.
How terrible! How terrible it is for you,
The message we preach is not about ourselves Our message is about Jesus Christ
Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah. Tamar was their mother.Perez was the father of Hezron.Hezron was the father of Ram.
“ ‘Sir,’ they said, ‘he already has ten times as much!’
So the slaves went out into the streets. They gathered all the people they could find, the bad as well as the good. Soon the wedding hall was filled with guests.
The dark night of evil is nearly over
Be ready to serve God in good times and bad
He will not wait any longer
The locusts looked like horses ready for battle.
Levi collects the tenth. But we might say that Levi paid the tenth through Abraham.
The weakness of God is stronger than human strength
He will live with them They will be his people
After Herod arrested Peter, he put him in prison. Peter was placed under guard. He was watched by four groups of four soldiers each. Herod planned to put Peter on public trial. It would take place after the Passover Feast.
Every time people broke the Law, they were punished.
But there are also things made out of wood and clay
As it is, you brag. You brag about the evil plans your pride produces. This kind of bragging is evil.
Greet Rufus. He is a chosen believer in the Lord. And greet his mother. She has been like a mother to me too.
Abrham swims
God had said to him, “Your family line will continue through Isaac.”  Even so, Abraham was going to offer him up.
did you bring me sacrifices and
These people complain and find fault with others They follow their own evil desires They brag about themselves They praise others to get what they want
But God raised him from the dead
As soon as Judas took the bread Satan entered into him
You have even failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields Their pay is crying out against you The cries of those who gathered the harvest have reached the ears of the Lord He rules over all
His disciples remembered what had been written It says My great love for your house will destroy me
You must do this because the place where you are standing is holy ground.
This youth game is a day of freedom for the female youth Shadey leaves for the male and Loffer Lofe is their day of freedom።
Master he said to him it is good for us to be here
Why not be cheated?
The group brought them to the apostles. Then the apostles prayed and placed their hands on them.
You who belong to Christ are Abraham’s seed. So you will receive what God has promised.
I have heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus I have also heard about your love for all Gods people That is why
God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son will give you grace, mercy
And this life is found in his Son.
He claimed to be someone great.
Our fight is not against human beings It is against the rulers the authorities and the powers of this dark world It is against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly world
They tell about how you are waiting for his Son to come from heaven
Brothers and sisters, I no longer preach that people must be circumcised. If I did, why am I still being opposed?
We speak about what we know.
But Peter said I may have to die with you But I will never say I dont know you And all the other disciples said the same thing
They have torn down your altars
I also have something to say to everyone else
and stop telling lies.
When Jesus went indoors the blind men came to him He asked them Do you believe that I can do this
Right away those who were about to question him left
Johns father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit He prophesied
The high priest and the whole Council can be witnesses of this themselves
You are like his building.
Then he gave a loud shout like the roar of a lion. When he shouted, the voices of the seven thunders spoke.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven.
For some time the judge refused But finally he said to himself I dont have any respect for God I dont care about what people think
I will pour out my Spirit on both men and women
We are talking about a priest who is from a different tribe.
What I’m about to tell you is true. You will weep and mourn while the world is full of joy. You will be sad, but your sadness will turn into joy.
He said In a certain town there was a judge He didnt have any respect for God or care about what people thought
Then he gave them to the disciples to give to the people
You didn’t do anything wrong to me.
I am not good enough to untie his sandals
You began by the Holy Spirit. Are you now trying to finish God’s work in you by your own strength?
Dear friends we have these promises from God So let us make ourselves pure from everything that makes our bodies and spirits impure Let us be completely holy We want to honor God
Because tomorrow we will die
I am sending it to the lady chosen by God and to her children. I love all of you because of the truth. I’m not the only one who loves you. So does everyone who knows the truth.
And his disciples believed in him
May peace and mercy be given to all who follow this rule May peace and mercy be given to the Israel that belongs to God
I wanted to be sure I wasn’t running my race for any purpose.
It says that everything has been put under him But it is clear that this does not include God himself Thats because God put everything under Christ
It wants what others have It gets drunk and takes part in wild parties It does many things of that kind I warn you now as I did before People who live like this will not receive Gods kingdom
In the past God didnt judge people for what they didnt know But now he commands all people everywhere to turn away from their sins
So when you sent for me, I came without asking any questions.
Everyone was amazed and gave praise to God. They were filled with wonder. They said, “We have seen unusual things today.”
Babylon the Great Prostitute Sits on the Beast
He also told him to allow Paul’s friends to take care of his needs.
When you sin, the pay you get is death. But God gives you the gift of eternal life. That’s because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done.
So they will give their power and authority to the beast
Don’t be too proud to accept the word that is planted in you. It can save you.
Teachings About Worship
He went there with Mary to be listed Mary was engaged to him She was expecting a baby
Your faith is not under our control You remain strong in your own faith But we work together with you for your joy
And in the morning you say, ‘Today it will be stormy. The sky is red and cloudy.’ You know the meaning of what you see in the sky. But you can’t understand the signs of what is happening right now.
That law says he must die. He claimed to be the Son of God.”
God rested from his work Those who enjoy Gods rest also rest from their works
We have a lot to say about this.
The devil had caused them to believe lies He was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur That is where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown
Ive given her time to turn away from her sinful ways
The wise ones took oil in jars along with their lamps
and wearining fine clothes
The water of the flood is a picture. It is a picture of the baptism that now saves you too.
Paul and Barnabas Return to Antioch
“Hosanna!”“Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord!”
That is very hard for Jews to accept. And everyone else thinks it’s foolish.
Jesus spoke first to his disciples.
But Jesus said, “You are from below. I am from heaven. You are from this world. I am not from this world.
They will take pleasure in evil They will be judged
“I have no husband,” she replied.
I served the Lord with tears and without pride. I served him when I was greatly tested.
They sold property and other things they owned. They gave to anyone who needed something.
and sea creatures
They won’t love others.
Don’t let anyone fool you with worthless words. People who say things like that aren’t obeying God. He is angry with them.
It said It is done
Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.”
“This is how you should pray.‘Our Father in heaven,may your name be honored.
The words I have spoken to you are full of the Spirit
He wiped out what the law said that we owed. The law stood against us. It judged us. But he has taken it away and nailed it to the cross.
There will be no more night.
They received the law.
I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews. He teaches us that God is true.
Teach and correct one another wisely
The disciples left and went into the city They found things just as Jesus had told them So they prepared the Passover meal
Worship God
But how far will that go in such a large crowd?”
In the inner circle around the throne were four living creatures They were covered with eyes in front and in back
Dear children,
He has brought down rulers from their thrones.
Some people there started a fire in the middle of the courtyard. Then they sat down together. Peter sat down with them.
He came to a town in Samaria called Sychar. It was near the piece of land Jacob had given his son Joseph.
One of you will say to me, “Then why does God still blame us? Who can oppose what he wants to do?”
The message is near you Its in your mouth and in your heart
Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your mind and with all your strength.’
And do everything you can to live a quiet life You should mind your own business And work with your hands just as we told you to
And his grace was not wasted on me
How were you less important than the other churches?
And the waters surrounded it But these people forget things like that on purpose
So he got up and went to his father.
So in my mind I am a slave to Gods law But sin controls my desires So I am a slave to the law of sin
The angel who talked with me had a gold measuring rod.
The demons begged Jesus Send us among the pigs Let us go into them
they begged us for the chance to share in serving the Lords people in that way
The other believers heard about this. They took Saul down to Caesarea. From there they sent him off to Tarsus.
When Herod saw Jesus he was very pleased He had been wanting to see Jesus for a long time He had heard much about him He hoped to see Jesus perform a sign of some kind
Then you will be pure and without blame. You will be children of God without fault among sinful and evil people. Then you will shine among them like stars in the sky.
The disciples returned. They told Jesus what they had done. Then he took them with him. They went off by themselves to a town called Bethsaida.
All the people answered “Put the blame for his death on us and our children!”
The Spirit is in you and you have received the Spirit from God
David calls him ‘Lord.’ So how can he be David’s son?”
But because of the Pharisees, they would not openly admit they believed. They were afraid they would be thrown out of the synagogue.
They have turned away from the truth
I am happy to tell you that he is working very hard for you He is also working hard for everyone in Laodicea and Hierapolis
He did this when he spoke through David a long time later.
Six stone water jars stood nearby The Jews used water from that kind of jar for special washings
Suppose Joshua had given them rest If he had God would not have spoken later about another day
The person who builds a house has greater honor than the house itself.
Fathers dont make your children bitter If you do they will lose hope
The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But how terrible it will be for the one who hands over the Son of Man! It would be better for him if he had not been born.”
I was glad when Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus arrived.
Our hope is certain. It is something for the soul to hold on to. It is strong and secure. It goes all the way into the Most Holy Room behind the curtain.
“We are witnesses of everything he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem.
He wrote one letter
If you hear it, don’t be stubborn.
The woman you saw stands for the great city of Babylon That city rules over the kings of the earth
Then you will say We ate and drank with you You taught in our streets
May you have power together with the entire Lord’s holy people to understand Christ’s love. May you know how wide and long and high and deep it is?
Some have special purposes Others have common purposes
And to each kind of seed he gives its own body
They will throw them into the blazing furnace. There people will weep and grind their teeth.
They must be kind.
But now you have received mercy
He took the seven loaves and the fish and gave thanks. Then he broke them and gave them to the disciples. And the disciples passed them out to the people.
After his suffering and death, he appeared to them.
With our own eyes we saw him in all his majesty.
No, a person is a Jew only if they are a Jew on the inside. And true circumcision means that the heart has been circumcised by the Holy Spirit.
His birth will make many people very glad.
Jesus heard this. So he said, “Those who are healthy don’t need a doctor. Sick people do.
Later the other bridesmaids also came Sir Sir they said Open the door for us
Teacher
But few things are needed. Really, only one thing is needed. Mary has chosen what is better. And it will not be taken away from her.”
In the same way, after supper he took the cup. He said, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Every time you drink it, do it in memory of me.”
Work at everything you do with all your heart Work as if you were working for the Lord not for human masters
I know you are looking forward to this
They wanted to find out when and how this salvation would come. The Spirit of Christ in them was telling them about the sufferings of the Messiah. These were his sufferings that were going to come. The Spirit of Christ was also telling them about the glory that would follow.
They wore gold strips of cloth around their chests
Don’t you understand yet? Don’t you remember the five loaves for the ,? Don’t you remember how many baskets of pieces you gathered?
God has found everyone guilty of not obeying him. So now he can have mercy on everyone.
Aren’t you acting like ordinary human beings?
Jesus called them together. He said, “You know about the rulers of the Gentiles. They hold power over their people. Their high officials order them around.
All the people were amazed So they asked each other What is this A new teaching And with so much authority He even gives orders to evil spirits and they obey him
One thing has become clear. I am being held by chains because I am a witness for Christ. All the palace guards and everyone else know it.
I tell you Elijah has come They have done to him everything they wanted to do They did it just as it is written about him
Then everyone left him and ran away
When they have finished speaking, the beast that comes up from the Abyss will attack them. He will overpower them and kill them.
He became hungry. He wanted something to eat. While the meal was being prepared, Peter had a vision.
People did not accept him but God chose him God places the highest value on him
And the child grew and became strong
But not one of them was healed except Naaman the Syrian
the Roman commander sent friends to him. He told them to say,
They lay their crowns in front of the throne
If you forgive anyone’s sins, their sins are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven.”
The dark night of evil is nearly over.
Semein was the son of Josek
“The merchants will say,
and through the lips of outsiders
Some people there started a fire in the middle of the courtyard Then they sat down together Peter sat down with them
He doesnt want anyone to be destroyed Instead he wants all people to turn away from their sins
The Day of the Lord
Then a man named Jairus came. He was a synagogue leader. When he saw Jesus, he fell at his feet.
I looked into it and saw four-footed animals of the earth. There were also wild animals, reptiles and birds.
everyone praised him.
I also hear about your faith in the Lord Jesus
But what if someone says in front of others that they don’t know me? I will say in front of my Father who is in heaven that I don’t know them.
We landed at Syracuse and stayed there for three days
He is coming with Onesimus our faithful and dear brother He is one of you They will tell you everything that is happening here
They looked around Suddenly they no longer saw anyone with them except Jesus
About three hours later, the wife of Ananias came in. She didn’t know what had happened. Peter asked her, “Tell me. Is this the price you and Ananias sold the land for?”
So then, welcome him as a brother in the Lord with great joy. Honor people like him.
Then the servant fell on his knees in front of him Give me time he begged Ill pay everything back
Jesus looked at him and said, “You are Simon, son of John. You will be called Cephas.” Cephas means Peter, or Rock.
The sun and sky were darkened by the smoke from the Abyss
Jesus reached the spot where Zacchaeus was. He looked up and said, “Zacchaeus, come down at once. I must stay at your house today.”
A week later, Jesus’ disciples were in the house again. Thomas was with them. Even though the doors were locked, Jesus came in and stood among them. He said, “May peace be with you!”
It is not that I want your gifts. What I really want is what is best for you.
But those who had the good news announced to them earlier didnt go in Thats because they didnt obey
He will remember the love you have shown him.
The official heard that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea.
When he said this they picked up stones to kill him
I said, ‘They will never enjoy the rest I planned for them.’ ”
This woman is a member of Abrahams family line But Satan has kept her disabled for  long years Shouldnt she be set free on the Sabbath day from what was keeping her disabled
It is given to those who are right with God The Lord who judges fairly will give it to me on the day he returns
None of them has been lost,
he brings glory to God.
Suppose people think their beliefs and how they live are both right But they dont control what they say
I was glad when Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus arrived. They have supplied me with what you couldn’t give me.
Believe in me also.
They took him to a meeting of the Areopagus There they said to him What is this new teaching youre giving us
Don’t obey them only to please them when they are watching. Do it because you are slaves of Christ. Be sure your heart does what God wants.
Peter Says That Jesus Is the Messiah
Keeping this in mind
The wall of the city had tewelve foundations.
If anyone is led into sin I burn on the inside
So among God’s churches we brag about the fact that you don’t give up easily.
Who are you to judge someone elses servant Whether they are faithful or not is their own masters concern And they will be faithful because the Lord has the power to make them faithful
But suppose I drive out demons by the Spirit of God. Then the kingdom of God has come to you.
But God set me apart from before the time I was born. He showed me his grace by appointing me. He was pleased
But our spirits are being renewed day by day.
But then how would the Scriptures come true They say it must happen in this way
Then Jesus rolled up the scroll. He gave it back to the attendant and sat down. The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were staring at him.
They received the law
He used it to measure the city, its gates and its walls.
It is the promise that our tewelve tribes are hoping to see come true. Because of this hope they serve God with faithful and honest hearts day and night. King Agrippa, it is also because of this hope that these Jews are bringing charges against me.
By being baptized, we were buried with Christ into his death. Christ has been raised from the dead by the Father’s glory. And like Christ we also can live a new life.
After Herod arrested Peter, he put him in prison. Peter was placed under guard. He was watched by four groups of four soldiers each.
Why should any of you think it is impossible for God to raise the dead
Jesus explained to them what was said about himself in all the Scriptures He began with Moses and all the Prophets
Put up with hard times God uses them to train you He is treating you as his children What children are not trained by their parents
I am God’s servant, just like the other prophets.
I remember this map.
Your own people and chief priests handed you over to me What have you done
They are not loving and kind.
Some of the people became followers of Paul and believed in Jesus
Then he came back. Again he found them sleeping. They couldn’t keep their eyes open. They did not know what to say to him.
You are a building that is built on the apostles and prophets
I am from heaven.
What happens when someone leaves a will? It is necessary to prove that the person who made the will has died.
Even if we are not faithful,
Brothers and sisters what I mean is that the time is short From now on those who have a husband or wife should live as if they did not
He said I will certainly bless you I will give you many children
Dont let your feelings get out of control
Honor others more than yourselves
Christ Jesus also commanded it. We have put our hope in him.
Pray that the Lords message will spread quickly Pray that others will honor it just as you did
I always taught in synagogues or at the temple where all the Jews come together
That will happen in a flash, as quickly as you can wink an eye. It will happen at the blast of the last trumpet.
I know where she is
It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready when he comes What Im about to tell you is true
Then it will be ready as a gift freely given It will not be given by force
Food Sacrificed to Statues of Gods
Then there came flashes of lightning, rumblings, thunder and a powerful earthquake.
She kept this up for many days
So they tied him up and led him away Then they handed him over to Pilate who was the governor
How terrible for you who laugh now!
You followed us You welcomed our message even when you were suffering terribly You welcomed it with the joy the Holy Spirit gives
Brothers and sisters, we should always thank God for you.
and called out. They asked if Simon Peter was staying there.
So let us do all we can to live in peace
When you pray, do not keep talking on and on. That is what ungodly people do. They think they will be heard because they talk a lot.
Just as Jesus was speaking Judas appeared He was one of the  disciples A crowd was with him They were carrying swords and clubs The chief priests the teachers of the law and the elders had sent them
I pray that what we share by believing will help you understand even more
They wont be thankful or holy
He heard that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by So he began to shout Jesus Son of David Have mercy on me
I won’t ask the rest of you in Thyatira to do anything else. You haven’t learned what some people call Satan’s deep secrets.
But I do know him
You can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there.’ And it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.”
Look, your house is left empty.
Obey the emperor He is the highest authority
But suppose someone says to you This food has been sacrificed to a statue of a god Then dont eat it
Peter answered, “May your money be destroyed with you! Do you think you can buy God’s gift with money?
Someone may ask you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ If so, say, ‘The Lord needs it.’ ”
A Levite also came by When he saw the man he passed by on the other side too
News about Jesus spread quickly all over Galilee.
“I am telling you now, before it happens. When it does happen, you will believe that I am who I am.
He said to him, “You are a child of the devil! You are an enemy of everything that is right! You cheat people. You use all kinds of tricks. Won’t you ever stop twisting the right ways of the Lord?
But the chief priests stirred up the crowd So the crowd asked Pilate to let Barabbas go free instead
Here is why I use stories when I speak to the people. I say,
I have obeyed all those commandments since I was a boy the ruler said
And we have entered into new life. We know this because we love one another.
“The manager told him, ‘Take your bill and change it to  bushels.’
When his death was near, he spoke about where to bury his bones.
The number of men who believed grew to about five thousend.
‘After that, they will leave that country and worship me here.’
What benefit did you gain from doing the things you are now ashamed of? Those things lead to death!
Then Isaiah boldly speaks about what God says. God said,
The well is deep
This is the heavenly Jerusalem You have come to a joyful gathering of angels
In fact, such things can’t be understood without the Spirit’s help.
The kingdom of the beast became very dark
After Jesus had sent the crowd away, he got into the boat. He went to the area near Magadan.
God gave Christ as a sacrifice to pay for sins through the spilling of his blood. So God forgives the sins of those who have faith.
Do everything God has given you to do.
Hello Abrham
Jesus Clears Out the Temple Courtyard
But he said
You have many books
I am thankful to Christ Jesus our Lord. He has given me strength. I thank him that he considered me faithful. I thank him for appointing me to serve him.
Abraham did not become weak in his faith.
The voice spoke to the sixth angel who had the trumpet The voice said Set the four angels free who are held at the great river Euphrates
At one time you were separated from God. You were enemies in your minds because of your evil ways.
Is it oxen that God is concerned about
We sailed in a ship from Alexandria that had stayed at the island during the winter
My children and I are in bed.
In the same way, Abraham “believed God. God was pleased with Abraham because he believed. So his faith made him right with God.”
Their hearts will be filled with love for you when they pray for you.
I am a witness about me. The other witness about me is the Father, who sent me.”
glory
Jesus said to them Do you bring in a lamp to put it under a large bowl or a bed Dont you put it on its stand
They know that God’s commands are right. They know that those who do evil things should die. But they continue to do those very things. They also approve of others who do them.
Jesus said Shall I come and heal him
Jesus Was Made Fully Human
When Jesus heard this, he said, “This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God’s glory. God’s Son will receive glory because of it.”
The one who searches will find
No one gave it to me. No one taught it to me. Instead, I received it from Jesus Christ. He showed it to me.
Do not let an unbelieving heart turn you away from the living God
By God’s word the heavens and earths of today are being reserved for fire. They are being kept for the day when God will judge.
Jesus said, “Do not hold on to me. I have not yet ascended to the Father.
There he stayed.
When a flood comes, the river rushes against the house.But the water can’t shake it. The house is well built.
Living a New Life in Christ
So the soldiers took the money and did as they were told
He didn’t say this because he cared about the poor. He said it because he was a thief.
Evil thoughts come from the inside, from a person’s heart. So do sexual sins, stealing and murder.
But Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt So he sent his sons on their first visit
As I watched, I heard an eagle that was flying high in the air.
Do good to them
I can’t do anything to stop the truth. I can only work for the truth.
He cant be seen
They all stayed there for a few days
Paul and Barnabas started to leave the synagogue.
Your own people made you suffer You went through the same things the church members in Judea suffered from the Jews
Give him glory in the church and in Christ Jesus Give him glory through all time and for ever and ever Amen
And you have stood in the way of those who were entering.”
We also know that the law isn’t made for godly people. It is made for those who break the law. It is for those who refuse to obey. It is for ungodly and sinful people. It is for those who aren’t holy and who don’t believe. It is for those who kill their fathers or mothers. It is for murderers.
This will happen no matter who has done it.
I hid under the table.
The first beast had given the second beast the power to perform these signs. By these signs, the second beast tricked those who live on the earth. The second beast ordered people to set up a statue to honor the first beast. The first beast was the one who had been wounded by a sword and still lived.
Again Peter said no.
Thats because what God says will always come true
I always thank my God for you. I thank him because of the grace he has given to you who belong to Christ Jesus.
Others have the right to receive help from you Dont we have even more right to do so
Some time ago Theudas appeared. He claimed he was really somebody.
But make sure that in your hearts you honor Christ as Lord
One of the teachers of the law came and heard the Sadducees arguing He noticed that Jesus had given the Sadducees a good answer So he asked him Which is the most important of all the commandments
When Zechariah saw him he was amazed and terrified
It is hard for you to go against what you know is right.’
Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple courtyard He looked around at everything But it was already late So he went out to Bethany with the disciples
But how far will that go in such a large crowd
Some people did accept him and did believe in his name. He gave them the right to become children of God.
All the people who heard Jesus’ words agreed that God’s way was right. Even the tax collectors agreed. These people had all been baptized by John.
The husband is the head of the wife just as Christ is the head of the church
If they do that, their lives won’t turn out to be useless.
Paul Prays and Gives Thanks
But you are so wise in Christ
One Sabbath day, Jesus went to eat in the house of a well-known Pharisee. While he was there, he was being carefully watched.
They grabbed Paul and dragged him out of the temple.
The angel is standing on the sea and on the land Go and take the scroll from him It is lying open in his hand
But if the unbeliever leaves, let that person go. In that case, the believer does not have to stay married to the unbeliever. God wants us to live in peace.
You can’t come where I am going.
So Im asking you to tell him again that you still love him
The Father has life in himself. He has allowed the Son also to have life in himself.
Those who wear fine clothes and have many expensive things are in palaces
Who has seen the Lord’s saving power?”
You know how patient I am
He said For three years now Ive been coming to look for fruit on this fig tree But I havent found any
He promised to save us from our enemiesThen we could serve him without fear
Many Jews had come to Martha and Mary. They had come to comfort them because their brother was dead.
Then we would lead godly lives. “His wounds have healed you.”
You are worthy to take the scroll
Is everyone an apostle? Is everyone a prophet? Is everyone a teacher? Do all work miracles?
So you aren’t a slave any longer. You are God’s child.
Instead, you yourselves cheat and do wrong. And you do it to your brothers and sisters.
Whoever has ears should listen
Jesus left Galilee and went to the area of Tyre and Sidon.
Yes I am coming soon
Jesus Teaches About Divorce
But I do know him.
Since you are doing these things,
That was when I took them by the hand.I led them out of Egypt.
Their bodies were scattered in the desert.
Hymenaeus and Alexander are among them. I have handed them over to Satan. That will teach them not to speak evil things against God.
Get behind me Satan he said You are not thinking about the things God cares about Instead you are thinking only about the things humans care aboutYou Must Pick Up Your Cross
May that be true when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones
But whoever has doubts about what they eat is guilty if they eat.
I know you do.”
Peter turned around. He saw that the disciple Jesus loved was following them.
Then Jesus asked the disciples, “Did you need anything when I sent you without a purse, bag or sandals?”
As you deal with one another you should think and act as Jesus did
He shows mercy to one person and makes another stubborn.
Offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded It will be a witness to the priest and the people that you are clean
Be joyful together with God’s people.”
His disciples replied Lord if hes sleeping he will get better
Help one another and agree with one another
No one asked Why are you talking with her
Children, obey your parents in everything. That pleases the Lord.
I passed on to you what I received from the Lord On the night the Lord Jesus was handed over to his enemies he took bread
A man said to Jesus, “I will follow you no matter where you go.”
Suppose we say that we share life with God but still walk in the darkness
There may be so-called gods either in heaven or on earth In fact there are many gods and many lords
While I was with them, I guarded them. I kept them safe through the name you gave me. None of them has been lost, except the one who was headed for ruin. It happened so that Scripture would come true.
It is the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus ChristProphecy of Scripture Comes From God
Instead, they should put on good works as if good works were their clothes. This is proper for women who claim to worship God.
He told her Go Get your husband and come back
Then he appeared to all the apostles
But God raised him from the dead. He set him free from the suffering of death.
The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water
Work at everything you do with all your heart. Work as if you were working for the Lord, not for human masters.
Some were made fun of and even whipped Some were held by chains Some were put in prison
He healed all who were under the devils power
Who won
All the people were amazed. They said, “Could this be the Son of David?”
Because of the good news, I am being held by chains as the Lord’s messenger.
But he wasnt seen by all the people
Or don’t you know that the Lord’s people will judge the world? Since this is true, aren’t you able to judge small cases?
Jesus warned them not to tell anyone about him.
That’s the rule all the churches must follow.
Then unbelievers will have respect for your everyday life And you wont have to depend on anyone
Warn anyone who tries to get believers to separate from one another
Then Jesus said to them, “
If your eye causes you to sin, poke it out and throw it away. It would be better to enter the kingdom of heaven with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell.
The smoke of the incense rose up from the angels hand The prayers of Gods people rose up together with it The smoke and the prayers went up in front of God
They thought he was somewhere in their group. So they traveled on for a day.
She kissed them and poured perfume on them.
No one Christ Jesus is at the right hand of God and is also praying for us He died More than that he was raised to life
“Let their feast be a trap and a snare.
The Spirit had told Simeon that he would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Messiah.
Now I am on my way to Jerusalem to serve the Lord’s people there.
So from that day on the Jewish rulers planned to kill Jesus
What I’m about to tell you is true. No one more important than John the Baptist has ever been born. But the least important person in the kingdom of heaven is more important than he is.
Gods people need to be very patient
If so the host who invited both of you will come to you He will say Give this person your seat Then you will be filled with shame You will have to take the least important place
What I’m about to tell you is true. The people living now will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened.
“But no one knows about that day or hour. Not even the angels in heaven know. The Son does not know. Only the Father knows.
The founders of our nation belong to them The Messiah comes from their family line He is God over all May he always be praised Amen
They were delighted to hear that he would do this. They promised to give Judas money. So he watched for the right time to hand Jesus over to them.
But you know that Timothy has proved himself. He has served with me like a son with his father in spreading the good news.
But I am not really alone My Father is with me
Our people received the tent from God Then they brought it with them when they took the land of Canaan
After Paul said this, he took some bread and gave thanks to God. He did this where they all could see him.
Then they will understand the faith correctly
He did not say this on his own because he was high priest at that time. He prophesied that Jesus would die for the Jewish nation.
Simons mother-in-law was lying in bed with a fever They told Jesus about her right away
Those who are Gods children will not keep on sinning
The sun has one kind of glory
No one can shut what he opens
Preach the word.
When you take another believer to court, you have lost the battle already.
She said Promise me that one of my two sons may sit at your right hand in your kingdom Promise that the other one may sit at your left hand
He had said I have not lost anyone God has given me
Now they know that everything you have given me comes from you
The officers arrived at the jail
The Seals of the Scroll Are Broken
To the strength to keep going add godliness
But Jesus did not answer him
The Feast of Unleavened Bread, called the Passover, was near.
The kingdom of God is not a matter of talk It is a matter of power
Im talking about the mystery God showed me I have already written a little about it
remain joined to Christ. Then when he comes, we can be bold.
those who wander in this world
The prophets searched very hard and with great care to find out about this salvation
Haven’t I seen Jesus our Lord?
After six days Jesus took Peter James and John with him He led them up a high mountain They were all alone There in front of them his appearance was changed
You are quite right.
By his power God raised the Lord from the dead. He will also raise us up.
Then the daughter of Herodias came in and danced She pleased Herod and his dinner guests
One man sinned, and death ruled over all people because of his sin.
Here are the words of Jesus, who is the Amen.
The serpent is also called the devil or Satan The angel put him in chains for one thousend year
The parts that we think are less important we treat with special honor
Dont believe a charge against an elder unless two or three witnesses bring it
As they sailed, Jesus fell asleep.
He said, “I tell you, even in Israel I have not found anyone whose faith is so strong.”
I'm afraid of spiders.
God promised that those people would never enjoy the rest he planned for them God gave his word when he made that promise Didnt he make that promise to those who didnt obey
Do this because they keep watch over you
May the only wise God receive glory forever through Jesus Christ. Amen.
Peter was sitting out in the courtyard. A female servant came to him. “You also were with Jesus of Galilee,” she said.
Jesus also gave them another example. He asked, “Can a blind person lead another blind person? Won’t they both fall into a pit?
Teachings about Christian Families
The one who did what is right suffered for those who dont do right He suffered to bring you to God
People Who Teach Lies or Love Money
They are the people of Israel. They have been adopted as God’s children. God’s glory belongs to them. So do the covenants. They received the law. They were taught to worship in the temple. They were given the promises.
Before anything was created he was already there
There was no place for them.
They could not find a way to do this because of the crowd. So they went up on the roof. Then they lowered the man on his mat through the opening in the roof tiles. They lowered him into the middle of the crowd, right in front of Jesus.
Command the rich to do what is good. Tell them to be rich in doing good things. They must give freely. They must be willing to share.
That is how
Sit at my right hand
You suffered along with people in prison When your property was taken from you you accepted it with joy You knew that God had given you better and more lasting things
There will no longer be any curse The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city Gods servants will serve him
Then Jesus said to them
You want to make us guilty of this mans death
Jesus said, “Father, forgive them. They don’t know what they are doing.” The soldiers divided up his clothes by casting lots.
So arent you following the ways of the world
“Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good except God.
But whoever has doubts about what they eat is guilty if they eat. That’s because their eating is not based on faith.
Sometimes their thoughts find them guilty
Then why are you angry with me? I healed a man’s entire body on the Sabbath day!
So the man got up and stood there
Then the women remembered Jesus words
As he walked along he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus Levi was sitting at the tax collectors booth Follow me Jesus told him Levi got up and followed him
If anyone is weak I feel weak If anyone is led into sin I burn on the inside
Don’t be fooled. You can’t outsmart God. A man gathers a crop from what he plants.
He fell to the ground. He heard a voice speak to him, “Saul! Saul! Why are you opposing me?”
He longs for all of you.
Large numbers of Jews and Greeks became believers.
Brothers and sisters, what should we say then? When you come together, each of you brings something. You bring a hymn or a teaching or a message from God. You bring a message in another language or explain what was said in that language. Everything must be done to build up the church.
Have you already become rich?
The man was not able to pay. So his master gave an order. The man, his wife, his children, and all he owned had to be sold to pay back what he owed.
They destroy the faith of some people.
But the news about Jesus spread even more
But if you can’t control yourselves, you should get married. It is better to get married than to burn with desire.
Suppose someone says, “I know him.” But suppose this person does not do what God commands. Then this person is a liar and is not telling the truth.
Heres how we do it
Moses gave you circumcision, and so you circumcise a child on the Sabbath day.
Hearing the law does not make a person right with God. People are considered to be right with God only when they obey the law.
Then he put his right hand on me and said,
In a loud voice they were saying
This is true if the Spirit of God lives in you
Then you will know the truth. And the truth will set you free.”
We don’t twist God’s word.
Your wife Elizabeth will have a child
Then Jesus left the crowd and went into the house. His disciples came to him. They said, “Explain to us the story of the weeds in the field.”
When a woman is learning, she should be quiet. She should follow her leaders in every way.
The four angels had been ready for this very hour and day and month and year.
He comforts us in all our troubles
A large crowd of people followed him They had seen the signs he had done by healing sick people
They put out great fires. They escaped being killed by swords. Their weakness was turned to strength. They became powerful in battle. They beat back armies from other countries.
Saul Becomes a Believer
Everything we said to you was true
But for that very reason, God showed me mercy. And I am the worst of sinners. He showed me mercy so that Christ Jesus could show that he is very patient. I was an example for those who would come to believe in him. Then they would receive eternal life.
But the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard about this. So they tore their clothes.
This is true if the Spirit of God lives in you.
because the Lord has the power to make them faithful
What Jesus did here in Cana in Galilee was the first of his signs. Jesus showed his glory by doing this sign. And his disciples believed in him.
There are three that are witnesses about Jesus.
I saw a light coming from heaven It was brighter than the sun It was shining around me and my companions
In the same way, deacons must be worthy of respect.
But we know that when Christ appears we will be like him
“Then he said, ‘The God of our people has chosen you. He wanted to tell you his plans for you. You have seen the Blameless One. You have heard words from his mouth.
Then you are guilty of breaking all of it
If this were not true, would I have told you that I am going there?
“Two people owed money to a certain lender. One owed him five hundred silver coins. The other owed him fifty silver coins.
I have had to keep on the move
But Jesus often went away to be by himself and pray
Simon replied I suppose the one who owed the most money
They said So then God has allowed even Gentiles to turn away from their sins He did this so that they could live
But Jesus didnt take advantage of that fact
Suppose no one raises from the dead. Then what will people do who are baptized for the dead?
Now then when the dead rise whose wife will she be All seven brothers were married to her
Epaphras sends you greetings Together with me he is a prisoner because of Christ Jesus
I see that you are very bitter You are a prisoner of sin
They are only a shadow of the things to come. But what is real is found in Christ.
They obeyed all the Lord’s commands and rules faithfully.
Jesus said, “This voice was for your benefit, not mine.
We were all baptized by one Holy Spirit.
Their statues of gods are made to look like people, birds, animals and reptiles.
you put Jesus to death You nailed him to the cross
CORINTHIANS 
You know the message God sent to the people of Israel. It is the good news of peace through Jesus Christ. He is Lord of all.
Do everything you can to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos. Send them on their way.
I saw in heaven another great and wonderful sign Seven angels were about to bring the seven last plagues The plagues would complete Gods anger
But here is how God has shown his love for us
Some people need letters that speak well of them. Do we need those kinds of letters, either to you or from you?
You are my Son
I know that none of you will ever see me again
I ask you to receive her as one who belongs to the Lord.
That was Gods plan from the beginning He has fulfilled his plan through Christ Jesus our Lord
May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord give you grace mercy and peace
They wont get very far
I will be their God
Jesus said to them Come and have breakfast
Festus answered Paul is being held at Caesarea
He is with you
My eyes have seen your salvation.
Teacher they said here is what Moses told us If a man dies without having children his brother must get married to the widow He must provide children to carry on his brothers name
Do you think you can buy God’s gift with money?
The one who sits on the throne
He placed his hands on each one and healed them
It is writtenYou can be sure that I live says the Lord
Why are you doing that if you arent Elijah or the Prophet weve been expecting
It's me.
By being baptized we have been joined with him in a death like his So we will certainly also be joined with him in a resurrection like his
In my opinion she is happier if she stays single And I also think that I am led by the Spirit of God in saying this
Hold on to what you have Then no one will take away your crown
They said, “We’ll go with you.”
He knows that he tells the truth.
He said this to show them how he was going to die.
But there are others who only look out for themselves.
They passed the first and second guards. Then they came to the Iron Gate leading to the city. It opened for them by itself. They went through it. They walked the length of one street. Suddenly the angel left Peter.
He sent his one and only Son into the world. He sent him so we could receive life through him.
You need to be faithful. Then you will do what God wants. You will receive what he has promised.
All angels are spirits who serve. God sends them to serve those who will receive salvation.
But the way to do what God requires must begin by having faith in him.
The Widow’s Offering
We respected them for it
Herod added this sin to all his others.
One day Jesus was praying alone. Only his disciples were with him.
The second looked like an ox.
Out of the smoke came locusts They came down on the earth They were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth
Those who have skin diseases are made ‘clean.’
You can shut up now.
But not during the feast they said The people may stir up trouble
He said, ‘For three years now I’ve been coming to look for fruit on this fig tree. But I haven’t found any.
I often went from one synagogue to another to have them punished I tried to force them to speak evil things against Jesus
The master of that slave will come back on a day the slave doesn’t expect him. He will return at an hour the slave does not know.
The men replied, “We have come from Cornelius, the Roman commander.
No one who does them will receive a share in the kingdom of Christ and of God
Where Lord his disciples asked
I pray that what we share by believing will help you understand even more.
Here is what you can be sure of. And God is even a witness to it. What I am writing you is not a lie.
Then I said Here I am It is written about me in the book
I was found by those who were not trying to find me
“Men of Israel,” he said, “think carefully about what you plan to do to these men.
Anyone who believes and is baptized will be saved. But anyone who does not believe will be punished.
The disciple was leaning back against Jesus  Lord
Jesus Is Sentenced to Be Crucified
He is able to break the seven seals and open the scroll
He has also given us his very great and valuable promises.
Everyone sinned, so death came to all people.
How terrible for you teachers of the law and Pharisees You pretenders You clean the outside of a cup and dish But on the inside you are full of greed You only want to satisfy yourselves
Brothers and sisters we should always thank God for you
I’m ashamed to have to say that I was too weak for that!
Does faith makes the law useless
My friends here is what I want you to know I announce to you that your sins can be forgiven because of what Jesus has done
I have heard their groans.
Not all earthly creatures are the same
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses their soul? Or what can anyone trade for their soul?
Hasnt God chosen those who are poor in the worlds eyes to be rich in faith
I hope you will put up with me in a little foolish bragging Yes please put up with me
When Jesus was tewelve years old, they went up to the feast as usual.
Here comes the train
I tried to destroy Gods church
Hasnt God made the wisdom of the world foolish
Have the authorities really decided that he is the Messiah?
These teachers are never satisfied. They want to get something out of you. So they make up stories to take advantage of you. They have been under a sentence of death for a long time. The God who will destroy them has not been sleeping.
“Again, you have heard what was said to your people long ago. They were told, ‘Do not break the promises you make to the Lord. Keep your promises to the Lord that you have made.’
Am I not telling the truth Then why dont you believe me
Live as people who are Gods slaves
Jesus said to her Mary
She is going to have a son You must give him the name Jesus Thats because he will save his people from their sins
Early in the morning the judges sent their officers to the jailer They ordered him Let those men go
The jailer was commanded to guard them carefully.
He came to tell everyone on earth the good news that will always be true He told it to every nation tribe and people no matter what language they spoke
The woman said to him, “Sir, give me this water.
Suppose someone refuses to accept our teaching They are not turning their back on us They are turning their back on God This same God gives you his Holy Spirit
I know a believer in Christ who was taken up to the third heaven fourteen years ago
Suppose someone takes your coat. Don’t stop them from taking your shirt as well.
Further my brothers and sisters be joyful because you belong to the Lord
Everyone who has this kind of knowledge will be given more knowledge In fact they will have very much If anyone doesnt have this kind of knowledge even what little they have will be taken away from them
Jesus saw him lying there. He knew that the man had been in that condition for a long time. So he asked him, “Do you want to get well?”
Yes Father This is what you wanted to do
and he blesses them
But Jesus came and touched them Get up he said Dont be afraid
Was this man born blind because he sinned Or did his parents sin
Then suddenly they will be destroyed It will happen like birth pains coming on a pregnant woman
What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day?
Your father Abraham was filled with joy at the thought of seeing my day. He saw it and was glad.”
Don’t let evil overcome you. Overcome evil by doing good.
How terrible How terrible it is for you great city
Be joyful with those who are joyful Be sad with those who are sad
They did more than we expected First they gave themselves to the Lord Then they gave themselves to us because that was what God wanted
He needs an umbrella
He will announce to the nations that everything will be made right.
Who can bring any charge against Gods chosen ones God makes us right with himself
Being circumcised means nothing.
And he will give us anything we ask.
They spoke in languages they had not known before.
Brothers and sisters, choose seven of your men. They must be known as men who are wise and full of the Holy Spirit. We will turn this important work over to them.
So ask the Lord of the harvest to send workers out into his harvest field.”
doesn’t teach these truths.
These people are like springs without water
The angel said to me, “You can trust these words. They are true. The Lord is the God who gives messages to the prophets. He sent his angel to show his servants the things that must soon take place.”
God called Abraham his friend
He wanted to tell you his plans for you
And don’t stop people from speaking in languages they had not known before.
God has given you grace that is better than anything.
All at once the prison doors flew open
So we are Christs official messengers
So some men came carrying a man who could not walk. He was lying on a mat.
I lost.
On their second visit Joseph told his brothers who he was
If you really know me you will know my Father also
Provide horses for Paul so that he may be taken safely to Governor Felix.”
The prophets and teachers fasted and prayed They placed their hands on Barnabas and Saul Then they sent them off
will never be heard in you again
Then those who come in can see the light
The commandment also is holy and right and good.
So the Pharisees and the teachers of the law questioned Jesus. “Why don’t your disciples live by what the elders teach?” they asked. “Why do they eat their food with ‘unclean’ hands?”
He said to him, “Everyone brings out the best wine first.
God is fair. He will pay back trouble to those who give you trouble.
When these things begin to take place, stand up. Hold your head up with joy and hope. The time when you will be set free will be very close.”
The storm quieted down
As you know, we never praised you if we didn’t mean it.
To people who are pure all things are pure
Give praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ He is the Father who gives tender love All comfort comes from him
When he finished one of his disciples spoke to him
It is written in the Prophets, ‘God will teach all of them.’  Everyone who has heard the Father and learned from him comes to me.
It is unusual for anyone to die for a godly person Maybe someone would be willing to die for a good person
If there is no one to explain, the person speaking should keep quiet in the church.
Paul prayed for him. He placed his hands on him and healed him.
Jesus knew that the Father had put everything under his power. He also knew he had come from God and was returning to God.
He isnt an American
When evening came Jesus was at the table with his  disciples
But others said, “A person controlled by a demon does not say things like this.
Jesus said to them, “Keep watch! Be careful that no one fools you.
What do you have that you did not receive?
Hearing the law does not make a person right with God
A man named Lazarus was sick
I’m writing a command we’ve had from the beginning.
When you bear a lot of fruit, it brings glory to my Father. It shows that you are my disciples.
Simeon took Jesus in his arms
It would come because of his faith, which made him right with God.
When they had done so
The tails were like snakes whose heads could bite.
When the sun came up, it burned the plants. They dried up because they had no roots.
The people saw the sign that Jesus did. Then they began to say,
When Jesus came ashore, he saw a large crowd. He felt deep concern for them. They were like sheep without a shepherd. So he began teaching them many things.
You love having people greet you with respect in the market
So even though I am away from you in body I am with you in spirit
In the same way teach the older women to lead a holy life They must not tell lies about others
You should come back to your senses and stop sinning
Dear friends do not believe every spirit Test the spirits to see if they belong to God Many false prophets have gone out into the world
Jesus Sends Out the Seventy-Two
Don’t act as if you were a ruler over those under your care. Instead, be examples to the flock.
He said
Dont put younger widows on that kind of list They might want pleasure more than they want Christ Then they would want to get married again
If one part suffers every part suffers with it If one part is honored every part shares in its joy
They also prophesied.
Your troubles have come in order to prove that your faith is real. Your faith is worth more than gold. That’s because gold can pass away even when fire has made it pure. Your faith is meant to bring praise, honor and glory to God. This will happen when Jesus Christ returns.
Jesus told the crowd another story Here is what the kingdom of heaven is like he said A man planted good seed in his field
But Saul began to destroy the church
And what is seed scattered among thorns like The people hear the message
he will give you another friend to help you and to be with you forever.
Jesus took the five loaves and the two fish. He looked up to heaven and gave thanks. He broke them into pieces.
So let me give you some advice. Leave these men alone! Let them go! If their plans and actions only come from people, they will fail.
Facing All Kinds of Trouble
Will women be saved by having children Only if they keep on believing loving and leading a holy life in a proper way
Jesus said Father forgive them They dont know what they are doing The soldiers divided up his clothes by casting lots
dont let anyone lead you astray
Thats because everyone who is a child of God has won the battle over the world Our faith has won the battle for us
What should we say then? The people of Israel did not receive what they wanted so badly. Those Israelites who were chosen did receive it. But the rest of the people were made stubborn.
At first I was sorry I see that my letter hurt you but only for a little while
Your brother or sister may be upset by what you eat If they are you are no longer acting as though you love them
Let their feast be a trap and a snare
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “What I’m about to tell you is true. It is hard for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of heaven.
We and the Lord were your examples.
At once the Holy Spirit sent Jesus out into the desert.
So have mercy just as your Father has mercy
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
he showed us the mystery of his plan It was in keeping with what he wanted to do It was what he had planned through Christ
He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants him. He’s the one who said, ‘I am the Son of God.’ ”
You know that God is right and always does what is right
Im a little confused
“Then what should I do with the one you call the king of the Jews?” Pilate asked them.
Blessed are those who are sad.
So Jesus replied to the messengers Go back to John
Kiss me.
So confess your sins to one another Pray for one another so that you might be healed The prayer of a godly person is powerful Things happen because of it
I wont ask the rest of you in Thyatira to do anything else You dont follow the teaching of Jezebel You havent learned what some people call Satans deep secrets
So eat and drink and do everything else for the glory of God
Lamech was the son of Methuselah.
In the beginning, the Word was already there. The Word was with God, and the Word was God.
God makes us right with himself
What the prophets said was meant for you. The covenant God made with your people long ago is yours also. He said to Abraham, ‘All nations on earth will be blessed through your children.’
There were men guarding Jesus. They began laughing at him and beating him.
I share Israel’s hope. That is why I am held with this chain.
If the building burns up the builder will lose everything The builder will be saved but only like one escaping through the flames
Jesus entered a house Again a crowd gathered It was so large that Jesus and his disciples were not even able to eat
So who is it that I hear such things about?” And he tried to see Jesus.
The beast I saw looked like a leopard But it had feet like a bear and a mouth like a lion The dragon gave the beast his power his throne and great authority
You are so excited that it has stirred up most of them to take action.
The veil has not been removed.
Some places may not welcome you or listen to you If they dont leave that place and shake the dust off your feet That will be a witness against the people living there
Remember Jesus Christ. He came from David’s family line. He was raised from the dead. That is my good news.
He comforts us in all our troubles.
It was the governor’s practice at the Passover Feast to let one prisoner go free. The people could choose the one they wanted.
“What happens when an evil spirit comes out of a person? It goes through dry areas looking for a place to rest. But it doesn’t find it.
No I have worked harder than all the other apostles
I did not speak on my own. The Father who sent me commanded me to say all that I have said.
Whoever has nothing,
They answered as Jesus had told them to So the people let them go
We know what love is because Jesus Christ gave his life for us So we should give our lives for our brothers and sisters
A Warning Against Doing Things for the Wrong Reasons
Masters treat your slaves in the same way
They refuse to obey him.
Some of the teachers of the law who were Pharisees stood up. They argued strongly.
Let everyone know how gentle you are.
Say with your mouth Jesus is Lord Believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead Then you will be saved
The people stood there watching. The rulers even made fun of Jesus. They said, “He saved others. Let him save himself if he is God’s Messiah, the Chosen One.”
I am from the tribe of Benjamin.
But the Jerusalem that is above is free. She is our mother.
just as you have loved me.
“Then the Lord said to him, ‘Take off your sandals. You must do this because the place where you are standing is holy ground.
Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit.
Then a new king came to power in Egypt Joseph didnt mean anything to him
But I tell you, Elijah has already come. People didn’t recognize him. They have done to him everything they wanted to do. In the same way, they are going to make the Son of Man suffer.”
His hands and feet had often been chained But he tore the chains apart And he broke the iron cuffs on his ankles No one was strong enough to control him
Jesus was doing these things on the Sabbath day. So the Jewish leaders began to oppose him.
Give, and it will be given to you. A good amount will be poured into your lap. It will be pressed down, shaken together, and running over. The same amount you give will be measured out to you.”
The voice of the Majestic Glory came to him
Jesus Makes a Fig Tree Dry Up
They are without blame.
So I went to the angel
Some men are not able to have children because they were born that way. Some have been made that way by other people. Others have chosen to live that way in order to serve the kingdom of heaven. The one who can accept this should accept it.”
So let us go to him outside the camp Let us be willing to suffer the shame he suffered
He turned toward the dead woman. He said, “Tabitha, get up.”
Jesus asked them, “What are you talking about as you walk along?”
So no one can boast to God
But Jesus said, “Someone touched me. I know that power has gone out from me.”
Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared. A light shone in the prison cell. The angel struck Peter on his side. Peter woke up. “Quick!” the angel said. “Get up!” The chains fell off Peter’s wrists.
No more than two or three people should speak in another language And they should speak one at a time Then someone must explain what was said
The next morning some Jews gathered secretly to make plans against Paul. They made a promise to themselves.
Show the believers how to be pure.
He has no family line.
They will brag and be proud.
“Gather the leftover pieces,” he said. “Don’t waste anything.”
Until now you have not asked for anything in my name
But God does not forget even one of them
They killed him by nailing him to a cross.
When Saul came to Jerusalem he tried to join the believers
His name is holy.
God made it known by sending his angel to his servant John.
What is hidden is meant to be seen. And what is put out of sight is meant to be brought out into the open.
you put Jesus to death. You nailed him to the cross.
-If your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It would be better to enter God’s kingdom with only one foot than to have two feet and be thrown into hell.
Until I come, spend your time reading Scripture out loud to one another.
I will give you words of wisdom. None of your enemies will be able to withstand them or prove them wrong.
Take them with you Join them in the Jewish practice that makes people pure and clean
I want us to encourage one another in the faith we share
Here is what I tell you. You are Peter. On this rock I will build my church. The gates of hell will not be strong enough to destroy it.
I fast twice a week And I give a tenth of all I get
Now what do you say
I made myself known to those who were not asking for Me.”
Remember what I told you. I said, ‘A slave is not more important than his master.’
So the sisters sent a message to Jesus. “Lord,”
This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die
She lay down to commit her sin so I will make her lie down in suffering.
If all the parts were the same how could there be a body
The Pharisees Want to Know How the Blind Man Was Healed
he is always fair.
He said to him, “Everyone brings out the best wine first. They bring out the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink. But you have saved the best until now.”
Circumcision has value if you obey the law But if you break the law it is just as if you hadnt been circumcised
The cries of those who gathered the harvest have reached the ears of the Lord.
They came from every nation tribe and people Thats true no matter what language they spoke
The man replied, “He is a prophet.”
But God gave you knew life together with Christ
When you pray go into your room Close the door and pray to your Father who cant be seen Your Father will reward you because he sees what you do secretly
Salmon was the son of Nahshon
Jesus told them still another story. “The kingdom of heaven is like yeast,” he said. “A woman mixed it into  pounds of flour. The yeast worked its way all through the dough.”
Pray that this will not happen in winter.
People chewed on their tongues because they were suffering so much
And I also think that I am led by the Spirit of God in saying this
The Purpose of Johns Gospel
“What I say about myself is more important than what John says about me. I am doing the works the Father gave me to finish. These works are a witness that the Father has sent me.
It is the message about Jesus Christ.
We did it in order to be a model for you to follow.
But you do not believe because you are not my sheep
You will always have poor people with you But you will not always have me
On the Sabbath day he taught the people.
True teaching agrees with the good news about the glory of the blessed God.
They will be burned with flaming sulfur The holy angels and the Lamb will see it happen
That means many people It says And to your seed
“There will be trouble for anyone who worships the beast and its statue!
“Suppose it is hard for godly people to be saved.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Suppose someone gives you a cup of water in my name because you belong to the Messiah. That person will certainly not go without a reward.
And if they are chosen by grace then they cant work for it If that were true grace wouldnt be grace anymore
Let their eyes grow dark so they cant see
They were not able to trap him with what he had said there in front of all the people Amazed by his answer they became silent
I will show you whom you should be afraid of.
He also says
Jesus answered What I teach is not my own
Every time you eat it do it in memory of me
They have closed their eyes.
Teach them carefully
No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven. He is the Son of Man.
You must understand something Suppose the owner of the house knew what time of night the robber was coming Then he would have kept watch He would not have let his house be broken into
I remember seeing her
Those who were tending the pigs saw what had happened
In Jerusalem there was a man named Simeon He was a good and godly man
He said to them Go to the village ahead of you Just as you enter it you will find a donkeys colt tied there No one has ever ridden it Untie it and bring it here
When morning came he called for his disciples to come to him
So he was added to the eleven apostles
The words we speak to those who have grown in the faith are wise
May what you want to happen be done
If that home welcomes you, give it your blessing of peace. If it does not, don’t bless it.
So Saul stayed with the believers
Dont you understand yet Dont you remember the five loaves for the  Dont you remember how many baskets of pieces you gathered
They were standing at the four corners of the earth.
Isnt the potter free to make different kinds of pots out of the same lump of clay
Because you are his children, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts. He is the Holy Spirit. By his power we call God Abba. Abba means Father.
They will give him this authority until Gods words come true
No the owner answered While you are pulling up the weeds you might pull up the wheat with them
She obeyed Abraham. She called him her master.
I care very little if I am judged by you or by any human court. I don’t even judge myself.
We haven’t caused anyone to sin.
So you also must be ready. The Son of Man will come at an hour when you don’t expect him.
But suppose we walk in the light just as he is in the light Then we share life with one another
The kings of the earth who committed terrible sins with her will weep They will mourn because they used to share her riches They will see the smoke rising as she burns
peace and love be given to you
See to it that no one commits sexual sins. See to it that no one is godless like Esau. He sold the rights to what he would receive as the oldest son. He sold them for a single meal.
You can’t be saved by believing in anyone else.
But some people in the crowd made fun of the believers Theyve had too much wine they said
Thats because I know who I have believed in
Teachings about Holy Living
Scripture says I want mercy and not sacrifice You dont know what those words mean If you did you would not bring charges against those who are not guilty
With their tongues they tell lies
Because no one has hired us they answered
The Story of Three Slaves
“Be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees,”
Among them were Barnabas, Simeon, and Lucius from Cyrene. Simeon was also called Niger. Another was Manaen. He had been brought up with Herod, the ruler of Galilee. Saul was among them too.
God is able to do far more than we could ever ask for or imagine He does everything by his power that is working in us
I want to retire soon
So the man watched them closely. He expected to get something from them.
Tell the older men that in anything they do they must not go too far They must be worthy of respect They must control themselves They must have true faith They must love others They must not give up
The second slave came to his master He said Sir your money has earned five times as much
Not at all!
In Joppa there was a believer named Tabitha
A third of all people were killed by the three plagues of fire, smoke and sulfur that came out of the horses’ mouths.
I won't need any help.
He is staying with another Simon a man who works with leather
Be joyful with those who are joyful. Be sad with those who are sad.
They think of new ways to do evil.
So I will always remind you of these things Ill do it even though you know them Ill do it even though you now have deep roots in the truth
Or is God the God of Jews only?
So we should give our lives for our brothers and sisters
Suppose someone thinks they know more than we do.
Even men from your own people will rise up and twist the truth They want to get the believers to follow them
This is because the Father loves the Son. The Father shows him everything he does.
But the temple Jesus had spoken about was his body
So the blind man called out Jesus Son of David Have mercy on me
The second angel blew his trumpet. Something that looked like a huge mountain on fire was thrown into the sea. A third of the sea turned into blood.
On the Sabbath day he went into the synagogue as he usually did.
Personal Greetings
Then Jesus ordered his disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Messiah.
My brothers and sisters try very hard to show that God has appointed you to be saved Try hard to show that he has chosen you If you do everything I have just said you will never trip and fall
We haven’t done anything wrong to anyone.
Lystra
And a husband must not divorce his wife.
They questioned me And they wanted to let me go They saw I wasnt guilty of any crime worthy of death
He said to them Then give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar And give back to God what belongs to God
“Then all the bridesmaids woke up and got their lamps ready.
be tender
He said to me, “Take it and eat it.
They stare at women who are not their wives.
Barnabas and Saul finished their task Then they returned from Jerusalem
A wise person isn’t proud when they do good deeds.
As he walked along he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus. Levi was sitting at the tax collector’s booth. “Follow me,” Jesus told him. Levi got up and followed him.
Jesus went around teaching from village to village
And he begged Jesus again and again not to send them out of the area.
However, nine years later it was said that by the French in , any hatch could be learned።
Again the Pharisees called the man who had been blind to come to them. “Give glory to God by telling the truth!” they said. “We know that the man who healed you is a sinner.”
flashes of lightning
and gentle and having control of oneself
Simon Peter motioned to that disciple.
In Lystra there sat a man who couldn’t walk.
Jesus turned and looked at his disciples. He scolded Peter.
When did it happen?
So be on your guard Remember that for three years I never stopped warning you Night and day I warned each of you with tears
He announced the good news of God’s kingdom. His tewelve disciples were with him.
Jesus gave his life for our sins. He set us free from this evil world. That was what our God and Father wanted.
They were talking with each other about everything that had happened.
They misuse the grace of our God as an excuse for sexual sins.
When Pilate heard that, he was even more afraid.
I wrote it all down.
He came to what was his own
In those days, people will look for a way to die but won’t find it. They will want to die, but death will escape them.
When a strong man is completely armed and guards his house what he owns is safe
Stand up.
Lord I want to be able to see the blind man replied
Yet as Christs apostles we could have used our authority over you
Once more Jesus put his hands on the mans eyes Then his eyes were opened so that he could see again He saw everything clearly
You made statues of those gods to worship.
Here is what he told them to do. “Take only a walking stick for your trip. Do not take bread or a bag. Take no money in your belts.
Then they cast lots.
So each of you must get rid of your lying. Speak the truth to your neighbor. We are all parts of one body.
because those people have a weak sense of what is right and wrong they feel guilty
It was about four oclock in the afternoon
“Dear woman, why are you telling me about this?” Jesus replied. “The time for me to show who I really am isn’t here yet.”
Our brothers are messengers from the churches They honor Christ
the tomb was nearby So they placed Jesus there
“Then he will say to those on his left, ‘You are cursed! Go away from me into the fire that burns forever. It has been prepared for the devil and his angels.
the power of sin is the law
The king was very upset. But he thought of his promise and his dinner guests. So he told one of his men to give her what she asked for.
Some Pharisees who were with him heard him say this. They asked, “What? Are we blind too?”
When the earth and sky saw his face, they ran away.
So we also believe and speak.
Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord
When a council that exists only by pretending Sinoro can corrupt the bloody executive branch with it just as big
I planned to visit you on my way to Macedonia. I would have come back to you from there. Then you would have sent me on my way to Judea.
Jesus stopped and said, “Call for him.”
I was ill yesterday.
Keep on doing these things Give them your complete attention Then everyone will see how you are coming along
Does that mean that Christ causes us to sin Certainly not
I Tertius wrote down this letter I greet you as a believer in the Lord
He is worthy to receive honor and glory and praise!”
Then Gods temple in heaven was opened Inside it the wooden chest called the ark of his covenant could be seen There were flashes of lightning rumblings and thunder an earthquake and a severe hailstorm
At that time people will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud. He will come with power and great glory.
Simon Peter had a sword and pulled it out. He struck the high priest’s slave and cut off his right ear.
But Jesus knew what they were trying to do. So he asked, “Why are you trying to trap me? Bring me a silver coin. Let me look at it.”
But you have disrespected poor people. Aren’t rich people taking advantage of you? Aren’t they dragging you into court?
A man unable to walk was being carried to the temple gate called Beautiful. He had been that way since he was born. Every day someone put him near the gate. There he would beg from people going into the temple courtyards.
There is no gift of the Holy Spirit that you don’t have. You are full of hope as you wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to come again.
But you won’t always have me.”
And heres how we put our hearts at rest knowing that God is watching
They said this because they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with Paul. They thought Paul had brought him into the temple.
The man had one person left to send It was his son and he loved him He sent him last of all He said They will respect my son
They got up and ran Jesus out of town. They took him to the edge of the hill on which the town was built. They planned to throw him off the cliff.
So how can we know the way?”
Michael didn’t dare to judge the devil. He didn’t say the devil was guilty of saying evil things. He didn’t even say these things when he argued with the devil about the body of Moses.
You went to wild parties
But you have received the Holy Spirit from God He continues to live in you
When the commander heard this, he went to the commanding officer and reported it. “What are you going to do?” the commander asked. “This man is a Roman citizen.”
He saidIn the last days God says
Then Paul called one of the commanders He said to him Take this young man to the commanding officer He has something to tell him
God will judge those outside Scripture says Get rid of that evil person
And dont give in to fear
When widows are in trouble take care of them Do the same for children who have no parents
But you commit adultery You hate statues of gods But you rob temples
So the soldiers took the money and did as they were told. This story has spread all around among the Jews to this day.
Its
We boast about what Christ Jesus has done. We don’t put our trust in who we are or what we can do.
But God wants to make it clear to Israel who this person is Thats the reason I came baptizing with water
Christ died and came back to life He did this to become the Lord of both the dead and the living
He found one that was very valuable. So he went away and sold everything he had. And he bought that pearl.
Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven He was wearing a cloud like a robe
Many people went out to meet him They had heard that he had done this sign
“Isn’t this the carpenter’s son?
The authorities serve God Ruling takes up all their time
“A messenger is calling out in the desert,‘Prepare the way for the Lord, Make straight paths for him.’ ”
But what if someone says in front of others that they dont know me I will say in front of my Father who is in heaven that I dont know them
I did not speak on my own
Brothers and sisters with all my heart I long for the people of Israel to be saved I pray to God for them
It is surrounded by five rows of columns with a roof over them
Then Satan entered Judas who was called Iscariot Judas was one of the  disciples
So the sisters sent a message to Jesus Lord
Israels sin brought riches to the world Their loss brings riches to the Gentiles So then what greater riches will come when all Israel turns to God
God has paid her back for killing those who served him
Then Peter stood up with the  apostles. In a loud voice he spoke to the crowd. “My fellow Jews,” he said, “let me explain this to you. All of you who live in Jerusalem, listen carefully to what I say.
When he was treated badly, he was refused a fair trial.
Jesus and his disciples came to Bethsaida Some people brought a blind man to him They begged Jesus to touch him
The Lord is not slow to keep his promise He is not slow in the way some people understand it Instead he is patient with you
Timothy, I am sending you this letter. You are my dear son.
By doing good you will put a stop to the talk of foolish people They dont know what they are saying
I will announce your name to my brothers and sisters
Leave me.
It could have been sold for more than a year’s pay. The money could have been given to poor people.” So they found fault with the woman.
In fact that is going to happen. What does not last will be dressed with what lasts forever?
I always thank my God when I remember you in my prayers
She went out and said to her mother, “What should I ask for?”
You say that people should not commit adultery.
Don’t be afraid of those who kill the body but can’t do any more than that.
And you know that no murderer has eternal life.
A man whose right hand was weak and twisted was there.
You are the God who is and who was.
Whether they are faithful or not is their own master’s concern.
God will bring Jesus back at a time that pleases him. God is the blessed and only Ruler. He is the greatest King of all. He is the most powerful Lord of all.
Then John told them I saw the Holy Spirit come down from heaven like a dove The Spirit remained on Jesus
Scripture says, “Honor your father and mother.” That is the first commandment that has a promise.
And without the help of the Holy Spirit no one can say, “Jesus is Lord.”
Then the church throughout Judea, Galilee and Samaria enjoyed a time of peace. The church was strengthened and grew larger. That’s because they worshiped the Lord and the Holy Spirit helped them.
The locusts looked like horses ready for battle. On their heads they wore something like crowns of gold. Their faces looked like human faces.
Jesus sent Peter and John on ahead Go he told them Prepare for us to eat the Passover meal
So here is what we can always be certain about.
Certain people have secretly slipped in among you
What are human beings that you think about them
Meanwhile, Saul continued to oppose the Lord’s followers. He said they would be put to death.
Brothers and sisters you are not in darkness
In this way all Israel will be saved. It is written,
“What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are. You are the Holy One of God!”
We also say good things about him
Then I could see.”
But the one whom God raised from the dead did not rot away
Gods grace has now appeared By his grace God offers to save all people
“While the son was still a long way off, his father saw him. He was filled with tender love for his son. He ran to him. He threw his arms around him and kissed him.
Which of the two do you want me to set free asked the governor
Suppose one of you has a servant plowing or looking after the sheep And suppose the servant came in from the field Will you say to him Come along now and sit down to eat
It seems to me that God has put us apostles on display at the end of a parade
Because I was sure of this I wanted to visit you first Here is how I thought you would be helped twice
Even tax collectors came to be baptized.
What we are suffering now is nothing compared with our future glory.
All of them were healed
They spoke the word of the Lord to him They also spoke to all the others in his house
May God receive glory
Suppose one of you wants to bring a charge against another believer Should you take it to ungodly people to be judged Why not take it to the Lords people
Then the Master will be able to use them for special purposes.
The body means nothing at all.
The dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth. So he chased the woman who had given birth to the boy.
The eye is like a lamp for the body Suppose your eyes are healthy Then your whole body will be full of light
The third had a mans face
A third of the earth was burned up
If we dont give upwe will also rule with him
When Jesus said, “I am he,” they moved back. Then they fell to the ground.
And they knew that the disciples had gone away alone
But each believer should live in whatever situation the Lord has given them. Stay as you were when God chose you.
The new covenant is based on better promises.
The voice spoke to the sixth angel who had the trumpet. The voice said, “Set the four angels free who are held at the great river Euphrates.”
David says,
They told you,
Im afraid that you wont find me as you want me to be
So suppose you disagree with one another in matters like this Who do you ask to decide which of you is right Do you ask people who live in a way the church disapproves of Of course not
They were untying the colt when its owners came. The owners asked them, “Why are you untying the colt?”
Let them trip and fall. Let them get what’s coming to them.
Jesus had been speaking about the death of Lazarus. But his disciples thought he meant natural sleep.
If you hear it dont be stubborn
They did everything that had been written about Jesus Then they took him down from the cross They laid him in a tomb
I left you on the island of Crete I did this because there were some things that hadnt been finished
It is not based on anything you have done
Husbands love your wives Love them just as Christ loved the church
A widow who really needs help and is left all alone puts her hope in God. Night and day she keeps on praying. Night and day she asks God for help.
Barnabas was a good man. He was full of the Holy Spirit and of faith.
The Son of God Is Better Than Everything Else
But it is raised in glory
So here is what the person who speaks in languages they had not known before should do. They should pray that they can explain what they say.
Is there any advantage in being a Jew Is there any value in being circumcised
Suppose someone listens to the word but doesn’t do what it says. Then they are like a person who looks at their face in a mirror.
They will act as if they were serving God. But what they do will show that they have turned their backs on God’s power. Have nothing to do with these people.
I will also give each of them a white stone with a new name written on it Only the one who receives this name will know what it is
You have been set free from sin. God has made you his slaves.
If I have to brag, I will brag about the things that show how weak I am.
Jews and Gentiles alike planned to treat Paul and Barnabas badly Their leaders agreed
I now serve the good news because God gave me his grace His power is at work in me
Its free
The second angel blew his trumpet Something that looked like a huge mountain on fire was thrown into the sea A third of the sea turned into blood
to tell you this good news
First Christ said You didnt want sacrifices and offerings
As he taught he said Watch out for the teachers of the law They like to walk around in long robes They like to be greeted with respect in the market
Adultery, greed, hate and cheating come from a person’s heart too. So do desires that are not pure, and wanting what belongs to others. And so do telling lies about others and being proud and being foolish.
The man looked up. He said, “I see people. They look like trees walking around.”
They were written also for us We believe in the God who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead So God will accept our faith and make us right with himself
The Word was already here from the beginning.
The governor and Bernice and those sitting with them stood up too
No But what is sacrificed by those who worship statues of gods is really sacrificed to demons It is not sacrificed to God
Agree with one another Dont be proud
Instead, you are acting as if you were its judge.
Go
In that case the believer does not have to stay married to the unbeliever
These actions include signs wonders and miracles
Eat the bodies of horses and their riders
He went inside. Then he said to them, “Why all this confusion and sobbing?
So they went away by themselves in a boat to a quiet place.
PETER
It fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water.
or danger
There they presented him to the Lord.
All the others are looking out for their own interests They are not looking out for the interests of Jesus Christ
‘I know what you are doing.
They go out to gather the kings of the whole world for battle This battle will take place on the great day of the God who rules over all
Instead they argued with him about their own beliefs They didnt agree about a man named Jesus They said Jesus was dead but Paul claimed Jesus was alive
Philip said, “Lord, show us the Father. That will be enough for us.”
When the Son of Man comes, he will be like the lightning. It flashes and lights up the sky from one end to the other.
Simon himself believed and was baptized
Anyone who serves the Lord must not be hard to get along with. Instead, they must be kind to everyone. They must be able to teach. The one who serves must not hold anything against anyone.
When Simon Peter saw this, he fell at Jesus’ knees. “Go away from me, Lord!” he said. “I am a sinful man!”
“No one sews a patch of new cloth on old clothes. Otherwise, the new piece will pull away from the old. That will make the tear worse.
I want to know Christ better Yes I want to know the power that raised him from the dead I want to join him in his sufferings I want to become like him by sharing in his death
Paul said to him Does the law allow you to whip a Roman citizen who hasnt even been found guilty
I didnt say anything in secret
Whoever loves other people has done everything the law requires
“Just what I have been telling you from the beginning,” Jesus replied.
We who are alive are always in danger of death because we are serving Jesus This happens so that his life can also be shown in our earthly bodies
Lofere Lofe is a strong proponent of social connection beyond traditional play።
All who take part in the games train hard
The elders who do the churchs work well are worth twice as much honor
dont worry about your body and what you will wear
Those who are God’s children will not keep on sinning. God’s very nature remains in them. They can’t go on sinning. That’s because they are God’s children.
If we ask anything in keeping with what he wants, he hears us.
They have rushed into the same mistake Balaam made. They did it because they loved money. They are like Korah.
John the Baptist Says That He Is Not the Messiah
So the Gentiles should share their earthly blessings with the Jews
Circumcision has value if you obey the law.
So don’t think you are better than the other branches.
The Son of Man came to look for the lost and save them.”
You were taught not to live the way you used to. You must get rid of your old way of life. That’s because it has been made impure by the desire for things that lead you astray.
It hardly ever leaves him. It is destroying him.
So here is what the person who speaks in languages they had not known before should do They should pray that they can explain what they say
Jesus finished teaching his  disciples Then he went on to teach and preach in the towns of Galilee
They are the foundation Christ Jesus himself is the most important stone in the building
God shows his anger from heaven. It is against all the godless and evil things people do. They are so evil that they say no to the truth.
He also prophesied that Jesus would die for God’s children scattered everywhere. He would die to bring them together and make them one.
I know them, and they follow me.
Then Nicodemus a Pharisee spoke He was the one who had gone to Jesus earlier
What the proverbs say about them is true A dog returns to where it has thrown up And A pig that is washed goes back to rolling in the mud
Im doing my homework
mighty city of Babylon!
The groom did not come for a long time So the bridesmaids all grew tired and fell asleep
Holy brothers and sisters God chose you to be his people So keep thinking about Jesus We embrace him as our apostle and our high priest
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners
Jesus saw him lying there He knew that the man had been in that condition for a long time
I am in Tokyo today.
Some of the officials in Asia Minor were friends of Paul. They sent him a message, begging him not to go into the theater.
Sin ruled and brought death. But grace rules in the lives of those who are right with God. The grace of God brings eternal life. That’s because of what Jesus Christ our Lord has done.
Children mothers elders could not be treated with beds።
We have already given written directions to the believers who are not Jews. They must not eat food that has been offered to statues of gods.
It was very early in the morning and still dark. Jesus got up and left the house. He went to a place where he could be alone. There he prayed.
And so we are formed into one body
The Lord gave me the authority to build you up. He didn’t give it to me to tear you down.
It is true that Christ was nailed to the cross because he was weak But Christ lives by Gods power
Brothers and sisters, choose seven of your men. They must be known as men who are wise and full of the Holy Spirit.
We were all baptized by one Holy Spirit And so we are formed into one body It didnt matter whether we were Jews or Gentiles slaves or free people We were all given the same Spirit to drink
God was pleased to have his whole nature living in Christ.
He said, “No one tears a piece out of new clothes to patch old clothes.
This became known all over Joppa. Many people believed in the Lord.
He wore a gold crown on his head.
From there we sailed to Rhenium
The first man came from the dust of the earth The second man came from heaven
He has given us the Holy Spirit as a down payment The Spirit makes us sure of what is still to come
Again, here is what I ask. The Israelites didn’t trip and fall once and for all time, did them? Not at all! Because Israel sinned, the Gentiles can be saved. That will make Israel jealous of them.
The heat of the desert will not harm them
They were trying to trap Jesus with that question. They wanted to have a reason to bring charges against him.
So he ordered that Paul be taken into the fort
You stand only because you do believe.
If you are slaves of sin, then you will die.
At one time you were separated from God.
While we live in this tent of ours, we groan under our heavy load. We don’t want to be naked.
Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered brings shame on his head
So even though I wrote to you, it wasn’t because of the one who did the wrong.
Philip and Thomas
But Jesus turned
And the earth produced its crops.
So he said to them, “Any kingdom that fights against itself will be destroyed.
I make my appeal to Caesar!”
It includes washing the feet of the Lord’s people.
Jesus went all over Galilee There he taught in the synagogues He preached the good news of Gods kingdom He healed every illness and sickness the people had
Once more Jesus said to them, “I am going away. You will look for me, and you will die in your sin. You can’t come where I am going.”
When the dead rise whose wife will she be All seven of them were married to her
Her newsletter is about ten days of news and preparation, as well as give us the feedback that the use of words should make።
But even now many enemies of Christ have already come.
Listen to the Word and Do What It Says
‘I know that you live where Satan has his throne. But you remain faithful to me. You did not give up your faith in me. You didn’t give it up even in the days of Antipas. Antipas, my faithful witness, was put to death in your city, where Satan lives.
“Where do you want us to prepare for it?” they asked.
You were chosen for it when you openly told others what you believe. Many witnesses heard you.
I dont understand what I do
“What will the owner of the vineyard do to the renters?
“Lord, is it you?” Peter asked. “If it is, tell me to come to you on the water.”
But my life means nothing to me. My only goal is to finish the race. I want to complete the work the Lord Jesus has given me.
So those who are last will be first And those who are first will be last
Jesus said this because the teachers of the law were saying He has an evil spirit
Thats why some Jews grabbed me in the temple courtyard and tried to kill me
Hail and fire mixed with blood were thrown down on the earth.
There were flashes of lightning rumblings and thunder an earthquake and a severe hailstorm
He was the priest of God Most High
Then Jesus said to them Nation will fight against nation Kingdom will fight against kingdom
I told Abrham  what to do
They do not belong to the world just as I do not belong to it
We have seen it and are witnesses to it
They will mourn because they used to share her riches They will see the smoke rising as she burns
It is not that we loved God It is that he loved us
In fact, we felt as if we were under the sentence of death. But that happened so that we would not depend on ourselves but on God. He raises the dead to life.
Some of you used to do those things
And why would we put ourselves in danger every hour?
One day Jesus was teaching the people in the temple courtyard He was announcing the good news to them The chief priests and the teachers of the law came up to him The elders came with them
I will have mercy on whom I have mercy
I haven’t let anyone keep me from telling you everything God wants you to do.
“I will send the Friend to you from the Father. He is the Spirit of truth, who comes out from the Father. When the Friend comes to help you, he will be a witness about me.
Anyone who comes to me must hate their father and mother They must hate their wife and children
He said Father if you are willing take this cup of suffering away from me But do what you want not what I want
I never played golf
Through his body on the cross, Christ set aside the law with all its commands and rules.
He is treating you as his children What children are not trained by their parents
I will not remember their sins anymoreI will not remember the evil things they have done
In fact when we were with you here is what we kept telling you We were telling you that our enemies would make us suffer
I say those things to you as my advice not as a command
That is why the world hates you
Jesus Is Brought to Pilate
They began to call out to him We honor you king of the Jews
Christ didnt have any sin But God made him become sin for us So we can be made right with God because of what Christ has done for us
You have been separated from Christ
The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land
Jesus was handed over to die for our sins.
He belongs to the other seven.
So he decided long ago to adopt us. He adopted us as his children with all the rights children have. He did it because of what Jesus Christ has done. It pleased God to do it.
He had James killed with a sword. James was John’s brother.
This agrees with what is written in the book of the prophets
I told you to get out.
By now it was early morning.
I have had to keep on the move.
Their worship comes from Satan.
That is where Jesus has gone He went there to open the way ahead of us He has become a high priest forever just like Melchizedek
I have many reasons to trust in who I am and what I have done Someone else may think they have reasons to trust in these things But I have even more
“Brothers and fathers, listen to me!” Stephen replied.
Josek was the son of Joda.
He has been punished because most of you decided he should be. This punishment is enough.
We dont belong to the night We dont belong to the darkness
We are writing only what you can read and understand And here is what I hope
Jesus and John the Baptist
They will all come out of their graves People who have done what is good will rise
I am like a gate for the sheep.
At other times you stood side by side with people being treated like this
Festus talked it over with the members of his court Then he said You have made an appeal to Caesar To Caesar you will go
The foundations of the city walls were decorated with every kind of jewel.
But as Joseph was thinking about this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. The angel said, “Joseph, son of David, don’t be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. The baby inside her is from the Holy Spirit.
While Paul was still presenting his case, Festus interrupted. “You are out of your mind, Paul!” he shouted. “Your great learning is driving you crazy!”
Don’t favor one person over another.
There they got into a boat and headed across the lake toward Capernaum.
Lie still.
So they answered Jesus We dont know
I have come into the world to be its light. So no one who believes in me will stay in darkness.
Do all speak in languages they had not known before?
I’ve given her time to turn away from her sinful ways.
Remember that I am being held by chains
He has anointed me to announce the good news to poor people.
The secrets of their hearts will be brought out into the open
Eat anything sold in the meat market Dont ask if its right or wrong
I thank God whom I serve as did our people of long ago I serve God knowing that what I have done is right
He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out
The Holy Spirit came to rest on him in the form of a dove. A voice came from heaven.
A certain rich mans land produced a very large crop
We also know that the law isnt made for godly people
He was telling them that Jesus had risen from the dead.
The way their minds judge them proves this fact.
There is one body, but it has many parts.
By what power did you do this they asked And through whose name
Mary Pours Perfume on Jesus at Bethany
Don‘t do anything that causes another person to trip and fall. It doesn’t matter if that person is a Jew or a Greek or a member of God’s church.
People shouted at him and made fun of him. But he didn’t do the same thing back to them. When he suffered, he didn’t say he would make them suffer. Instead, he trusted in the God who judges fairly.
You must also be witnesses about me Thats because you have been with me from the beginning
Simeon was the son of Judah
Agrippa said to Festus This man could have been set free But he has made an appeal to Caesar
Then I heard how many people were marked with the seal.
Then in all things God will be praised through Jesus Christ
He has given the Son the task of judging.
So be careful how you listen Whoever has something will be given more
you should have taken my advice not to sail from Crete. Then you would have avoided this harm and loss.
I was blind,
Jesus left there. He walked along the Sea of Galilee. Then he went up on a mountainside and sat down.
I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are living by the truth.
Jesus turned and said to Peter Get behind me Satan You are standing in my way You do not have in mind the things God cares about Instead you only have in mind the things humans care about
People have tamed all kinds of wild animals birds reptiles and sea creatures And they still tame them
So dont worship statues of gods as some of them did
But what if we say, ‘From human authority’?” They were afraid of the people. Everyone believed that John really was a prophet.
Anyone who wants to take the free gift of the water of life should do so.
But one who is more powerful than I am will come.
Do I mean that a statue of a god is anything?
You will just be speaking into the air.
I looked, and there in front of me was a pale horse! Its rider’s name was Death. Following close behind him was Hell. They were given power over a fourth of the earth. They were given power to kill people by swords. They could also use hunger, sickness and the earth’s wild animals to kill.
Their beliefs and way of life are not worth anything at all.
dont just talk about love Put your love into action
Jesus felt deep concern for them He touched their eyes Right away they could see And they followed him
But things are different with God. He makes ungodly people right with himself. If people trust in him, their faith is accepted even though they do not work. Their faith makes them right with God.
This is what you have been chosen to do. You will receive a blessing by doing this.
No one
But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth could open the scroll No one could even look inside it
Pauls Trial in Front of Festus
Arent you the result of my work for the Lord
He and everyone who lived with him were filled with joy. They had become believers in God.
Because you are human, you find this hard to understand. So I am using an everyday example to help you understand. You used to give yourselves to be slaves to unclean living. You were becoming more and more evil. Now give yourselves to be slaves to right living. Then you will become holy.
Godly sadness causes us to turn away from our sins and be saved. And we are certainly not sorry about that! But worldly sadness brings death.
We worked even though we have the right to receive help from you
News about what Jesus had done spread all over that area
There is someone else who is a witness in my favor.
He made his home with us. We have seen his glory.
Jesus answered People who have had a bath need to wash only their feet
It includes worshiping statues of gods and
The second beast ordered people to set up a statue to honor the first beast
It is the same for anyone who takes part in a sport. They don’t receive the winner’s crown unless they play by the rules.
They shared everything they had
So he went to the Pharisee’s house. He took his place at the table.
Don’t give in to them. More than  of them are waiting in hiding to attack him. They have promised that they will not eat or drink anything until they have killed him. They are ready now. All they need is for you to bring Paul to the Sanhedrin.”
I hate you
The Lamb, who is at the center of the area around the throne,will be their shepherd.
In fact, there are many “gods” and many “lords.”
These liars said This fellow never stops speaking against this holy place He also speaks against the law
I saw a new heaven and a new earth
I will live with them
Am I not an apostle
I will also continue to help you be joyful in what you have been taught.
The bride belongs to the groom.
“Men,” he said, “I can see that our trip is going to be dangerous.
Dear children Im writing to you because you know the Father
The people causing the trouble saw the commander and his soldiers. So they stopped beating Paul.
But Philip announced the good news of God’s kingdom and the name of Jesus Christ. So men and women believed and were baptized.
You can easily check on this.
His neighbors and people who had seen him earlier begging asked questions.
When they arrived they went to the Jewish synagogue
Where these sins have been forgiven an offering for sin is no longer necessary
The person whose heart has been circumcised does more than obey the written law
You were guilty of the blood of all who have been killed on the earth.”
You can trust this saying These things are important Treat them that way Then those who trust in God will be careful to commit themselves to doing good These things are excellent They are for the good of everyone
Doesnt he say that for us Yes it was written for us Whoever plows and separates the grain hopes to share the harvest And it is right for them to hope for this
Right away an angel of the Lord struck Herod down. Herod had not given praise to God.
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar. Fire will destroy everything in them. God will judge the earth and everything done in it.
They will be terrified by her suffering. They will stand far away from her. And they will cry out,
The angel said to me, “You can trust these words.
He did away with the shadow of the good things that were coming.
“Their throats are like open graves.
Do we Jews have any advantage
That’s because God had planned something better for us. So they would only be made perfect together with us.
Thats because you did not believe my words
I will pray with my spirit.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who accepts someone I send accepts me. And anyone who accepts me accepts the one who sent me.”
By creating conflict; by destroying order; seeking self-imposed power does not make a difference ።
So the women hurried away from the tomb. They were afraid, but they were filled with joy. They ran to tell the disciples.
The words I have spoken to you are full of the Spirit.
You work long and hard
His only daughter was dying. She was about twelve years old.
JOHN
body be kept free from blame.
But inside you are full of greed and evil
The Pharisees heard this So they said This fellow drives out demons by the power of Beelzebul the prince of demons
I believe everything that is in keeping with the Law. I believe everything that is in keeping with what is written in the Prophets.
If you hear it, don’t be stubborn.”
The created world was held back from fulfilling its purpose But this was not the result of its own choice
Jesus said to them What Im about to tell you is true Some who are standing here will not die before they see that Gods kingdom has come with power
Publius owned property nearby He was the chief official on the island He welcomed us to his home
It was two hundred feet thick
He doesn't like fish.
I planted the seed. Apollos watered it. But God has been making it grow.
You have never seen what he really looks like.
But Paul replied to the officers. “They beat us in public,” he said. “We weren’t given a trial. And we are Roman citizens! They threw us into prison.
You must eat the Son of Mans body and drink his blood
It separates people into their own little groups.
Jesus has been given a place of honor at the right hand of God. He has received the Holy Spirit from the Father. This is what God had promised. It is Jesus who has poured out what you now see and hear.
“Again, here is what I tell you. Suppose two of you on earth agree about anything you ask for. My Father in heaven will do it for you.
Here’s how we know that we are joined to him
Love for money causes all kinds of evil. Some people want to get rich. They have wandered away from the faith. They have wounded themselves with many sorrows.
Thats because we will see him as he really is
Before that he was useless to you
It is written,
They talked to each other about it They said If we say From heaven he will ask Then why didnt you believe him
“Listen carefully to what I am about to tell you.
And suppose the ear says, “I am not an eye. So I don’t belong to the body.” By saying this, it cannot stop being part of the body.
Our father Abraham offered his son Isaac on the altar. Wasn’t he considered to be right with God because of what he did?
I am certain he knows everything that has been going on After all it was not done in secret
The people of Israel did not receive what they wanted so badly
Don’t you have homes to eat and drink in? You are shaming those in the church who have nothing.
They are proud of their useless ideas. That’s because their minds are not guided by the Holy Spirit.
Then the whole town went out to meet Jesus When they saw him they begged him to leave their area
And I’m sure I myself will come soon if the Lord allows it.
Everyone has sinned
I have learned the secret of being content no matter what happens. I am content whether I am well fed or hungry.
Is it being a leader Then work hard at it
They will pass away
Then he threw him into the Abyss He locked it and sealed him in This was to keep Satan from causing the nations to believe his lies anymore
But Mary kept all these things like a secret treasure in her heart. She thought about them over and over.
See to it that no one commits sexual sins See to it that no one is godless like Esau He sold the rights to what he would receive as the oldest son He sold them for a single meal
Priscilla and Aquila heard him. So they invited him to their home. There they gave him a better understanding of the way of God.
sexual sins and stealing
After they have come through hard times this person will receive a crown The crown is life itself The Lord has promised it to those who love him
no one at all
Those who were tending the pigs ran off They told the people in the town and countryside what had happened The people went out to see for themselves
Jesus Drives Out an Evil Spirit
But Christ really has been raised from the dead. He is the first of all those who will rise from the dead.
After that we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them We will be taken up in the clouds
One man sinned and death ruled over all people because of his sin
Tell them not to put their hope in riches. Wealth is so uncertain. Command those who are rich to put their hope in God. He richly provides us with everything to enjoy.
I have learned to be content no matter what happens to me
He makes people holy It also comes through believing the truth
Peter went up to Jerusalem. There the Jewish believers found fault with him.
Even though you are evil, you know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your Father who is in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!”
I am a sinful man!
A woman giving birth to a baby has pain Thats because her time to give birth has come
Don ‘t give any part of yourself to serve sin. Don’t let any part of yourself be used to do evil. Instead, give yourselves to God. You have been brought from death to life. So give every part of yourself to God to do what is right.
They kept asking We dont understand what he is saying
But even Michael, the leader of the angels, didn’t dare to say these things.
Is there anything else you want to bring up? Settle it in a court of law.
But you know all about my teaching You know how I live and what I live for You know about my faith and love You know how patient I am You know I havent given up
I dont know if that man was in his body or out of it Only God knows But I do know that
and brought him first to Annas. He was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest at that time.
The next day he took out two silver coins. He gave them to the owner of the inn. ‘Take care of him,’ he said. ‘When I return, I will pay you back for any extra expense you may have.’
Eliakim was the son of Melea
The man who saw it has been a witness about it. And what he has said is true. He knows that he tells the truth. He is a witness so that you also may believe.
If I preach because I have to Im only doing my duty
Im grateful for that
“Then I asked, ‘Who are you, Lord?’
Those who commit adultery with her will suffer greatly too. Their only way out is to turn away from what she taught them to do.
They spoke about the grace that was going to come to you.
Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give. You shouldn’t give if you don’t want to. You shouldn’t give because you are forced to. God loves a cheerful giver.
First they must be tested.
They measure themselves by themselves They compare themselves with themselves When they do that they are not wise
Leave her alone Jesus replied The perfume was meant for the day I am buried
God poured out the Spirit on us freely. That’s because of what Jesus Christ our Savior has done.
So when you sent for me, I came without asking any questions. May I ask why you sent for me?”
But Jesus said to his disciples Have them sit down in groups of about fiftyeach
Just like Jannes and Jambres, their foolish ways will be clear to everyone.
God is our witness that this is true.
Bring them here to me he said
Once more Jesus said to them I am going away
It is as if God were making his appeal through us.
By this time you should be teachers.
You will fill me with joy when I am with you.’
So be perfect just as your Father in heaven is perfect
The beast opened its mouth to speak evil things against God. It told lies about God and about the place where God lives. And it told lies about those who live in heaven with him.
So no one will be considered right with God by obeying the law. Instead, the law makes us more aware of our sin.
Brothers and sisters make sure that none of you has a sinful heart
But my mind does not pray.
But many who are first will be last And many who are last will be first
He was exposed to irreplaceable psychological fractures።
They have turned away from the truth.
It was Preparation Day. The next day would be a special Sabbath day.
So she ran to Simon Peter and another disciple, the one Jesus loved. She said, “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb! We don’t know where they have put him!”
Which of the two sons did what his father wanted
Suppose you have not been worthy of trust in handling worldly wealth. Then who will trust you with true riches?
And they come out
We are Jews by birth We are not sinful Gentiles
The disciples left and went into the city. They found things just as Jesus had told them. So they prepared the Passover meal.
Here are the words of Jesus who holds the seven stars in his right hand He also walks among the seven golden lampstands He says
All the people were amazed. So they asked each other, “What is this? A new teaching! And with so much authority! He even gives orders to evil spirits, and they obey him.”
Treat them that way Then those who trust in God will be careful to commit themselves to doing good
So I put up with everything for the good of Gods chosen people Then they also can be saved
The private parts arent shown But they are treated with special care
Soon I’ll be going there myself.
Then the day of the banquet arrived He sent his servant to those who had been invited The servant told them Come Everything is ready now
Liang Sh, , has taken many challenges to fulfill his dream of attending university since he was just  years old።
The horses and riders I saw in my vision had armor on their chests.
A person can’t sin by breaking a law if that law doesn’t exist.
Many people refuse to obey God All they do is talk about things that mean nothing They try to fool others No one does these things more than the circumcision group
Because you cant really hear what I say
You are like Gods field
Blind people receive sight.
You must remain strong
“And why do you worry about clothes? See how the wild flowers grow. They don’t work or make clothing.
It is the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.Prophecy of Scripture Comes From God
What I’m about to tell you is true. Everyone who believes has life forever.
But no one can tame the tongue. It is an evil thing that never rests. It is full of deadly poison.
Jesus answered, “Even if I am a witness about myself, what I say does count. I know where I came from. And I know where I am going. But you have no idea where I come from or where I am going.
He will have them take their places at the table. And he will come and wait on them.
So I know I will remain with you.
But when they came to Jesus, they saw that he was already dead. So they did not break his legs.
The church is Christs body He is its Savior
Then Andrew and Philip told Jesus
But Timothy has come to us from you just now He has brought good news about your faith and love
“I was found by those who were not trying to find me.
They beat back armies from other countries.
We were all given the same Spirit to drink
He replied, “Because you have been given the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven. It has not been given to outsiders.
“What is written in the Law?” Jesus replied. “How do you understand it?”
So he traveled all around Galilee. He preached in their synagogues. He also drove out demons.
He's a tennis player.
No, we announce God’s wisdom. His wisdom is a mystery that has been hidden. But before time began, God planned that his wisdom would bring us heavenly glory.
Instead, he will come to bring salvation to those who are waiting for him.
No branch can bear fruit by itself
Then the Samaritans came to him and tried to get him to stay with them. So he stayed two days.
You have the words of eternal life.
But the wisdom that comes from heaven is pure. That’s the most important thing about it. And that’s not all.
Paul Gives Thanks for the Philippians’ Gifts
Have you completely forgotten this word of hope
You can trust this saying. These things are important. Treat them that way. Then those who trust in God will be careful to commit themselves to doing good. These things are excellent. They are for the good of everyone.
The boat was already a long way from land. It was being pounded by the waves because the wind was blowing against it.
But Paul spoke to the commander and the soldiers These men must stay with the ship he said If they dont you cant be saved
And in the morning you say Today it will be stormy The sky is red and cloudy You know the meaning of what you see in the sky But you cant understand the signs of what is happening right now
His speech bored me
May grace is with you all
Jesus’ Mother and Brothers
All the believers used to meet together at Solomons Porch
The great day of their anger has come. Who can live through it?”
I am very pleased with you
Then he told me
They sat down and kept watch over him there.
The strength to go on produces character.
Brothers and sisters, I want you to know something about our people who lived long ago. They were all led by the cloud. They all walked through the Red Sea.
Jesus said to them, “Why do people say that the Messiah is the son of David?
The official did not see him again
The slaves name was Malchus
Matthias Is Chosen to Take the Place of Judas Iscariot
If he hadnt we would have become like Sodom
He replied, “Go into the city to a certain man. Tell him, ‘The Teacher says, “My time is near. I am going to celebrate the Passover at your house with my disciples.” ’ ”
Then I saw a Lamb that looked as if he had been put to death. He stood at the center of the area around the throne. The Lamb was surrounded by the four living creatures and the elders. He had seven horns and seven eyes. The eyes stand for the seven spirits of God, which are sent out into all the earth.
You have made them members of a royal family.
When he arrived in Galilee, the people living there welcomed him. They had seen everything he had done in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast. That was because they had also been there.
But he commanded them to be quiet.
“The Lord has blessed you in a special way.
It can separate bones from joints.
No one has seen the Father except the one who has come from God.
Part of Israel has refused to obey God. That will continue until the full number of Gentiles has entered God’s kingdom.
Do your best to get here before winter.
Others replied No He fools the people
But Jesus didn’t take advantage of that fact.
Paul and his companions traveled all through the area of Phrygia and Galatia. The Holy Spirit had kept them from preaching the word in Asia Minor.
I will pay you back for any extra expense you may have.’
they will tear the new clothes
But you have saved the best until now.”
Say no to every kind of evil.
He replied, “This kind can come out only by prayer.”
Then the men who had been sent to Jesus returned to the house. They found that the servant was healed. Jesus Raises a Widow’s Son From the Dead
The third angel blew his trumpet.
A high priest like that really meets our need. He is holy, pure and without blame. He isn’t like other people. He does not sin. He is lifted high above the heavens.
So he traveled all around Galilee He preached in their synagogues He also drove out demons
May you be without blame from now until our Lord Jesus Christ comes
“There was not enough food for all Egypt and Canaan. This brought great suffering.
“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a trader who was looking for fine pearls.
That’s because no one can be made right with God by obeying the law.
But Scripture has locked up everything under the control of sin. It does so in order that what was promised might be given to those who believe. The promise comes through faith in Jesus Christ.
You have sent people to John the Baptist
They dont plant or gather crops
Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding.
“Suppose a master puts one of his slaves in charge of the other slaves in his house. The slave’s job is to give them their food at the right time. The master wants a faithful and wise slave for this.
Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you
The official said to Philip Tell me please
But when Peter saw the wind, he was afraid. He began to sink. He cried out, “Lord! Save me!”
And measure the altar where the people are worshiping.
I will show love to those I love
Gods chosen people cry out to him day and night Wont he make things right for them Will he keep putting them off
Do those who depend on the law receive the promise? If they do, faith would mean nothing. God’s promise would be worthless.
When I want to do good evil is right there with me
Just before dawn Paul tried to get them all to eat.
He doesn’t live in temples built by human hands.
That’s because he was afraid of the circumcision group sent by James.
He has two daughters
Jesus saw her crying.
But love your enemies. Do good to them. Lend to them without expecting to get anything back. Then you will receive a lot in return. And you will be children of the Most High God. He is kind to people who are evil and are not thankful.
In the same way every good tree bears good fruit But a bad tree bears bad fruit
How very rich are God’s wisdom and knowledge!
The Pharisees saw this They said to Jesus Look It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day But your disciples are doing it anyway
To others he gives the power to do miracles.
Wisdom like this doesn’t come down from heaven. It belongs to the earth.
God will do it at once
Timothy works together with me He sends his greetings to you So do Lucius Jason and Sosipater my fellow Jews
Who are you Lord I asked
Paul Opposes Peter
He was in the desert fourty days. There Satan tempted him. The wild animals didn’t harm Jesus. Angels took care of him.
They are hated by God.
Abraham did this, because he believed that God could even raise the dead.
Large crowds gathered around him. So he got into a boat and sat down. All the people stood on the shore.
At other times you stood side by side with people being treated like this.
Don’t let all kinds of strange teachings lead you astray.
Jesus does for us everything the holy law requires. The power of sin should no longer control the way we live. The Holy Spirit should control the way we live.
People who say things like that aren’t obeying God. He is angry with them.
This is the covenant I will establish with the people of Israel
But the Spirit himself prays for us He prays through groans too deep for words
I hired someone today.
The apostles did many signs and wonders among the people.
I sent Tychicus to Ephesus
He took Peter, James and John along with him. He began to be very upset and troubled.
Jesus said to them, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
The tongue is the most evil part of the body
He will guard you from the evil one
These lights create shadows that move
Suppose anyone has left houses brothers or sisters father or mother husband or wife children or fields because of me Anyone who has done that will receive one hundred times as much They will also receive eternal life
May the Lord make your love grow May it be like a rising flood May your love for one another increase May it also increase for everyone else May it be just like our love for you
Who is Eating the Rub
And do everything you can to live a quiet life
People who say things like that show that they are looking for a country of their own
Thats because he was afraid of the circumcision group sent by James
“They stand for all the nations of the world, no matter what their race or language is.
Dear friends, everything I do is to help you become stronger.
“Caesar’s,” they replied.
He is a leader of those who follow Jesus of Nazareth
The Son can do nothing by himself He can do only what he sees his Father doing
It is a rock that makes them fall
Suppose I decide to brag
There was also some bread.
God gives life to everything.
Then the group of soldiers, their commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus.
No Peter replied Im not
CORINTHIANS
No outsider dared to join them.
The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed.
He asked, “Why are you crying? Why are you breaking my heart? I’m ready to be put in prison. In fact, I’m ready to die in Jerusalem for the Lord Jesus.”
Don’t let anyone trick you in any way.
Brothers and sisters pray for us
The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman She had been caught committing adultery They made her stand in front of the group
And where I am my servant will also be
The leader must not be a new believer. If he is, he might become proud. Then he would be judged just like the devil.
You worshiped statues of gods,
I will brag about a man like that.
And they werent even opposing you
And what about you Capernaum Will you be lifted up to the heavens
The promise is for you and your children. It is also for all who are far away. It is for all whom the Lord our God will choose.”
The crowd saw what Paul had done. They shouted in the Lycaonian language.
Then the disciples understood that Jesus was not telling them to watch out for the yeast used in bread He was warning them against what the Pharisees and Sadducees taught
Be like babies as far as evil is concerned
“I am sending you out like sheep among wolves. So be as wise as snakes and as harmless as doves.
Praise and cursing come out of the same mouth
But I tell you, Elijah has already come. People didn’t recognize him. They have done to him everything they wanted to do. In the same way, they are going to make the Son of Man suffer.”
The husband is the head of the wife just as Christ is the head of the church The church is Christs body He is its Savior
When the demon left the man began to speak
Paul went to see Aquila and Priscilla
I have come so they may have life. I want them to have it in the fullest possible way.
The people invited them to say more about these things on the next Sabbath day.
Because the things Cain had done were wrong
They were amazed and full of fear. They asked one another, “Who is this? He commands even the winds and the waves, and they obey him.”
A leader must be free from blame.
“But the renters saw the son coming. They said to one another, ‘This is the one who will receive all the owner’s property someday. Come, let’s kill him. Then everything will be ours.’
This is because I am a witness that their works are evil
A third of the earth was burned up.
Then Jesus and his disciples went on to another village.
We thank him because we have heard about your faith in Christ Jesus We have also heard that you love all Gods people
I am free and dont belong to anyone
And no one can open what he shuts.
It is written
Instructions About Widows, Elders and Slaves
Before Jesus came John preached that we should turn away from our sins and be baptized He preached this to all Israel
Christ is the head of the body
But suppose someone says to you, “This food has been sacrificed to a statue of a god.” Then don’t eat it.
So people brought those who were sick into the streets. They placed them on beds and mats. They hoped that at least Peter’s shadow might fall on some of them as he walked by.
He traveled through that area speaking many words of hope to the people Finally he arrived in Greece
The commander heard about Jesus. So he sent some elders of the Jews to him.
Dont be afraid of what you are going to suffer
Jesus answered, “I tell you, not seven times, but seventy seven times.
He agreed to give them the usual pay for a day’s work. Then he sent them into his vineyard.
He has no family line
So there were no needy persons among them. From time to time, those who owned land or houses sold them. They brought the money from the sales.
Otherwise they might see with their eyes
This happened so that what Isaiah the prophet had said would come true. He had said,
God promised I will return at the appointed time
While the women were on their way, some of the guards went into the city. They reported to the chief priests all that had happened.
It was nine oclock in the morning when they crucified him
But Jesus made no reply not even to a single charge The governor was really amazed
You say I am rich Ive become wealthy and dont need anything But you dont realize how pitiful and miserable you have become You are poor blind and naked
Fallen
Even though you are evil you know how to give good gifts to your children How much more will your Father who is in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him
Jesus knew who was going to hand him over to his enemies. That was why he said not every one was clean.
Paul and Silas Are Sent to Berea
Herod asked him many questions, but Jesus gave him no answer.
He was an attendant of Sergius Paulus the governor Paulus was a man of understanding
Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give. You shouldn’t give if you don’t want to.
But the earth helped the woman.
Is everyone an apostle
go after it
They are the people of Israel They have been adopted as Gods children Gods glory belongs to them So do the covenants They received the law They were taught to worship in the temple They were given the promises
Lystra.
Their teaching will spread like a deadly sickness
What Im about to tell you is true Everyones sins and evil words against God will be forgiven
You can do this now that you have tasted how good the Lord isThe Living Stone and a Chosen People
That is why I did not even think I was fit to come to you.
You were taught not to live the way you used to. You must get rid of your old way of life.
Then I heard the angel who was in charge of the waters
Suffering for Doing Good
We have faith So we understand that everything was made when God commanded it Thats why we believe that what we see was not made out of what could be seen
At that very moment I was able to see him.
You who belong to Christ are Abrahams seed So you will receive what God has promised
“Forty years passed. Then an angel appeared to Moses in the flames of a burning bush. This happened in the desert near Mount Sinai.
Some Pharisees came to test Jesus They asked Does the Law allow a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all
That is how it has been with John the Baptist. When he came to you, he didn’t eat bread or drink wine. And you say, ‘He has a demon.’
He shouted at the top of his voice, “Jesus, Son of the Most High God, what do you want with me?
Remain joined to Christ just as you have been taught by the Spirit
The man believed what Jesus said, and so he left.
Jesus said to the servants, “Fill the jars with water.” So they filled them to the top.
God did not spare the worlds ungodly people long ago He brought the flood on them But Noah preached about the right way to live God kept him safe He also saved seven others
So make yourselves humble Put yourselves under Gods mighty hand Then he will honor you at the right time
As you know, after that he wanted to receive his father’s blessing. But he was turned away. With tears he tried to get the blessing. But he couldn’t change what he had done.
The kingdom of the world has become
Now then, why are you trying to test God? You test him when you put a heavy load on the shoulders of Gentiles. Our people of long ago couldn’t carry that load. We can’t either.
Make the most of every opportunity. The days are evil. So don’t be foolish. Instead, understand what the Lord wants.
Then they will be ready. They will not be caught naked and so be put to shame.”
For your benefit I am glad I was not there Now you will believe
So did the prophets.
Lord Simon Peter replied not just my feet Wash my hands and my head too
Those who are happy should live as if they were not.
Let their backs be bent forever
I will sing your praises among those who worship you
But here is what I tell you.
Birds fly.
The woman said, “I know that Messiah is coming.” Messiah means Christ. “When he comes, he will explain everything to us.”
Dear friends, this is now my second letter to you.
Then the world will know that you sent
The name Barnabas means Son of Help.
Christ also suffered once for sins.
I’m looking out for the interests of others. I do it so that they might be saved.
Return home and tell how much God has done for you So the man went away
And the world was made through him. But the world did not recognize him.
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down It is thrown into the fire
Let us give him glory
But you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching
The law says Do not want what belongs to other people  If the law hadnt said that I would not have known what it was like to want what belongs to others
Some people need letters that speak well of them Do we need those kinds of letters either to you or from you
As I watched, I heard an eagle that was flying high in the air. It called out in a loud voice, “How terrible! How terrible it will be for those living on the earth! How terrible! They will suffer as soon as the next three angels blow their trumpets!”
But God was with him.
Jesus answered, “What I teach is not my own. It comes from the one who sent me.
How can they believe in him unless they hear about him
I'm Abrham 's assistant.
The fourth angel blew his trumpet.
The God that Abraham believed in gives life to the dead. Abraham’s God also creates things that did not exist before.
You can’t have a part in both the Lord’s table and the table of demons.
So Paul and Barnabas were appointed to go up to Jerusalem. Some other believers were chosen to go with them. They were told to ask the apostles and elders about this question.
sulfur that came out of the horses mouths
When I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands.
So then King Agrippa I obeyed the vision that appeared from heaven
Sin entered the world because one man sinned.
Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium. They won the crowd over to their side. They threw stones at Paul. They thought he was dead, so they dragged him out of the city.
But it is raised in glory.
Scripture says Can what is made say to the one who made it
You got drunk
That is why I was angry with them.
On the authority of the chief priests, I put many of the Lord’s people in prison.
There were one hundred fifty three of them. But even with that many fish the net was not torn.
Jesus said This voice was for your benefit not mine
But the person who prophesies builds up the church.
Then the King will speak to those on his right He will say My Father has blessed you Come and take what is yours It is the kingdom prepared for you since the world was created
It does not look out for its own interests.
He saw that Peter and John were about to enter. So he asked them for money.
The Lamb broke open the fifth seal. I saw souls under the altar. They were the souls of people who had been killed. They had been killed because of God’s word and their faithful witness.
He saw Jesus standing at Gods right hand
Jesus spoke to the people again. He said, “I am the light of the world.
But it was Solomon who built the temple for God.
I long to see you. I want to make you strong by giving you a gift from the Holy Spirit.
What should we say then
That city rules over the kings of the earth.”
That’s why I write these things before I come to you. Then when I do come, I won’t have to be hard on you when I use my authority. The Lord gave me the authority to build you up. He didn’t give it to me to tear you down.
God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son will give you grace, mercy and peace. These blessings will be with us because we love the truth.
Stop judging only by what you see. Judge in the right way.”
Maath was the son of Mattathias
What a terrible failure I am!
When he returns many who believe in him will have died already We believe that God will bring them back with Jesus
Jesus told them more stories He said
“I had almost reached Damascus.
will never be heard in you again
It is written I believed and so I have spoken Psalm  We have that same spirit of faith So we also believe and speak
Then they should consider again that we belong to Christ just as much as they do.
So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby
He described the medical problem that he said, My government should see us with attention።
Sarah was like that. She obeyed Abraham. She called him her master. Do you want to be like her? Then do what is right. And don’t give in to fear.
Not at all
He will bring peace between parents and their children
The beast was given a mouth to brag and speak evil things against God The beast was allowed to use its authority for  months
The Lord will save me from every evil attack
A man named Joseph was a member of the Jewish Council. He was a good and honest man.
“ ‘An enemy did this,’ he replied.“The slaves asked him, ‘Do you want us to go and pull up the weeds?’
Christ Jesus also commanded it We have put our hope in him
Jesus Is Brought to Pilate and Herod
The locusts looked like horses ready for battle
If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? No. Those who wear fine clothes and have many expensive things are in palaces.
I have to preach it.
It will be good for the servant if the master finds him doing his job when the master returns
There was no place for them
So they motioned to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. They came and filled both boats so full that they began to sink.
God said Do not commit adultery He also said Do not commit murder  Suppose you dont commit adultery but do commit murder Then you have broken the law
It does not dishonor other people. It does not look out for its own interests. It does not easily become angry. It does not keep track of other people’s wrongs.
You may ask me for anything in my name I will do it
We have faith. So we understand that everything was made when God commanded it.
After Pilate gave him permission, Joseph cameand took the body away.
Jesus mother stood near his cross
Then the apostles gathered around Jesus and asked him a question. “Lord,” they said, “is you going to give the kingdom back to Israel now?”
Here is what I tell you. You must be more godly than the Pharisees and the teachers of the law. If you are not, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven.Murder
They went to the chief priests and the elders. They said, “We have made a special promise to God. We will not eat anything until we have killed Paul.
About an hour later, another person spoke up. “This fellow must have been with Jesus,” he said. “He is from Galilee.”
They only heard others say
But when anyone turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
Then you will eat and drink at my table in my kingdom And you will sit on thrones judging the  tribes of Israel
You know that we treated each of you as a father treats his own children
So if David calls him ‘Lord,’ how can he be David’s son?”
Five have fallen
He has also commanded us to love one another
God didn’t choose us to receive his anger. He chose us to receive salvation because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done.
He is holy, pure and without blame.
There he stayed with his disciples
build yourselves up in your most holy faith
When the Jews saw the crowds, they became very jealous. They began to disagree with what Paul was saying. They said evil things against him.
After Jesus cried out again in a loud voice, he died.
May grace be with you
“What do you think about the Messiah? Whose son is he?”
They are people who do evil things
Who is more important? Is it the one at the table, or the one who serves? Isn’t it the one who is at the table? But I am among you as one who serves.
None of you asks me Where are you going
He begged Jesus Please come My little daughter is dying Place your hands on her to heal her Then she will live
These people are like the great enemy of Christ.
he was taken up to paradise.
follow the lead of your own husbands.
-And when you stand praying, forgive anyone you have anything against.
You have us as a model So pay close attention to those who live as we do
The mind ruled by the power of sin is at war with God
May the grace of our Lord Jesus be with you
“What is this child going to be?”
At that time many people became very upset about the Way of Jesus.
The Israelites Who Are Faithful
Finally the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees. They asked the guards, “Why didn’t you bring him in?”
When you warn them dont be too hard on them You know that the God who is their Master and yours is in heaven
Be joyful with those who are joyful
The time came when the beggar died The angels carried him to Abrahams side The rich man also died and was buried
I don’t want you to have anything to worry about. A single man is concerned about the Lord’s matters. He wants to know how he can please the Lord.
They did not understand that Jesus was telling them about his Father
The star was given the key to the tunnel leading down into a bottomless pit.
Then the man who had the evil spirit jumped on Scevas sons
Or suppose he asks for a fish Which of you will give him a snake
The Lamb broke open the third seal. Then I heard the third living creature say, “Come!” I looked,
May peace and mercy be given to all who follow this rule. May peace and mercy be given to the Israel that belongs to God?
Greet my dear friend Epenetus. He was the first person in Asia Minor to become a believer in Christ.
What Im about to tell you is true Anyone who will not receive Gods kingdom like a little child will never enter it
Or should we do evil?
The weapons I fight with are not the weapons the world uses. In fact, it is just the opposite. My weapons have the power of God to destroy the camps of the enemy.
But he only knew about Johns baptism
When I was with you and needed something I didnt because you any expense The believers who came from Macedonia gave me what I needed I havent caused you any expense at all And I wont ever do it
So they asked him You arent one of Jesus disciples too are you
He has remembered your gifts to poor people.
He even counts every hair on your head!
If they do they will be put to shame for speaking like this about you
And they can strike the earth with every kind of plague They can do this as often as they want to
He saw a fig tree by the road He went up to it but found nothing on it except leaves Then he said to it May you never bear fruit again Right away the tree dried up
God judged the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah.
they should do it as one speaking God’s words.
Try hard to do what is right and godly
I baptize people with water John replied But someone is standing among you whom you do not know
He answered Havent you ever read about what David did He and his men were hungry They needed food
It doesnt do any good
The third had a man’s face.
You think you can make foolish people wise.
No, we have put up with everything. We didn’t want to keep the good news of Christ from spreading.
I have come in my Father’s name, and you do not accept me. But if someone else comes in his own name, you will accept him.
When we arrived in Jerusalem the brothers and sisters gave us a warm welcome
Jesus replied, “Where I am going you can’t follow now. But you will follow me later.”
John the Baptist Prepares the Way
“ ‘I owe , bushels of wheat,’ he replied.
I only know that in every city the Spirit warns me He tells me that I will face prison and suffering
Jesus saw Nathanael approaching Here is what Jesus said about him He is a true Israelite Nothing about him is false
It is a light to be given to the Gentiles.
The disciples asked him, “Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah has to come first?”
Jesus wept.
Is there any value in being circumcised?
Dear children dont just talk about love Put your love into action Then it will truly be love
How can they call on him unless they believe in him? How can they believe in him unless they hear about him? How can they hear about him unless someone preaches to them?
What really counts is that the new creation has come
This is my blood of the covenant It is poured out to forgive the sins of many people
But when you are invited take the loweSt place Then your host will come over to you He will say Friend move up to a better place Then you will be honored in front of all the other guests
And when she finds it she will call her friends and neighbors together She will say Be joyful with me I have found my lost coin
But Scripture has locked up everything under the control of sin It does so in order that what was promised might be given to those who believe
Because of his faith Abel still speaks He speaks even though he is dead
Godly sadness causes us to turn away from our sins and be saved
Peter Says He Is Not Jesus’ Disciple
Herod had John’s head cut off in the prison.
Young people playing in groups played the story to us referring to the army that Queen Eleni called Come
Paul Speaks Up for His Service to the Church
Peter said, “Brothers and sisters, a long time ago the Holy Spirit spoke through David. He spoke about Judas Iscariot. What the Scripture said would happen have to come true. Judas was the guide for the men who arrested Jesus.
Jesus came took the bread and gave it to them
He was buried. He was raised from the dead on the third day, just as Scripture said he would be.
Barnabas and Saul were sent on their way by the Holy Spirit. They went down to Seleucia. From there they sailed to Cyprus.
God said good things about his offerings
When he landed at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem.
Thomas said to him Lord we dont know where you are going
They are a law for themselves This is true even though they dont have the law
Greet Andronicus and Junia my fellow Jews They have been in prison with me
He replied, “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”
And the second is like it Love your neighbor as you love yourself
Peter replied, “All the others may turn away because of you. But I never will.”
He trusts in God Let God rescue him now if he wants him Hes the one who said I am the Son of God
We are sad, but we are always full of joy. We are poor, but we make many people rich. We have nothing, but we own everything.
In fact we felt as if we were under the sentence of death But that happened so that we would not depend on ourselves but on God He raises the dead to life
If anyone destroys Gods temple God will destroy that person Gods temple is holy And you all together are that temple
I have not been speaking to you plainly
People went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea. They also came from the whole area around the Jordan River.
Dear children, remain joined to Christ. Then when he comes, we can be bold. We will not be ashamed to meet him when he comes.
Didn’t Moses give you the law? But not one of you obeys the law. Why are you trying to kill me?”
Both of them did what was right in the sight of God.
Then she is called a woman who commits adultery But suppose her husband dies Then she is free from that law She is not guilty of adultery if she marries another man
Do not stop him Jesus said Anyone who is not against you is for you
Jesus answered, “God’s work is to believe in the one he has sent.”
the kingdom of our Lord and of his Messiah.
Then the Jews there began to complain about Jesus That was because he said I am the bread that came down from heaven
The next day the crowd that had stayed on the other side of the lake realized something.
The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering things like this about him. Then the chief priests and the Pharisees sent temple guards to arrest him.
You dont follow the teaching of Jezebel
He was in the desert fourty days There Satan tempted him The wild animals didnt harm Jesus Angels took care of him
Titus was with me. He was a Greek. But even he was not forced to be circumcised.
When you judge the law, you are not keeping it.
It's OK.
None of our faces are covered with a veil. All of us can see the Lord’s glory and think deeply about it.
The grass dries up The flowers fall to the ground
I also appointed you so that the Father will give you what you ask for He will give you whatever you ask for in my name
He was not ashamed that I was being held by chains.
“Do not be afraid, Mary.
Here is the command God has given us
When daylight came; they saw a bay with a sandy beach. They didn’t recognize the place. But they decided to run the ship onto the beach if they could.
The believers who went with Paul took him to Athens.
Your traders were among the world’s most important people.
It is actually reported that there is sexual sin among you. I’m told that a man is sleeping with his father’s wife. Even people who don’t know God don’t let that kind of sin continue.
Once more Jesus felt very sad He came to the tomb
He longs for all of you He is troubled because you heard he was sick
So let us never stop offering to God our praise through Jesus Let us talk openly about our faith in him Then our words will be like an offering to God
Jesus replied, “Haven’t you read that in the beginning the Creator ‘made them male and female’?
When that day comes you will no longer ask me for anything
How can you say to your friend, ‘Let me take the bit of sawdust out of your eye’? How can you say this while there is a piece of wood in your own eye? You pretender! First take the piece of wood out of your own eye. Then you will be able to see clearly to take the bit of sawdust out of your friend’s eye.
Their thinking became worthless
Are we “out of our minds,” as some people say? If so, it is because we want to serve God.
He holds the key of David
They knew it was the Lord
The Jews there were amazed. They asked, “How did this man learn so much without being taught?”
But do not measure the outer courtyard
The Faith of a Woman From Canaan
Jesus Heals a Blind Man at Bethsaida
You have been raised up with Christ So think about things that are in heaven That is where Christ is He is sitting at Gods right hand
The mother of Zebedees sons came to Jesus Her sons came with her Getting on her knees she asked a favor of him
The main street of the city was made out of gold It was gold as pure as glass that people can see through clearly
I am telling you what I saw when I was with my Father. You are doing what you have heard from your father.”
Everyone who asks will receive
“The workers who were hired about five o’clock came. Each received the usual day’s pay.
He saved us. It wasn’t because of the good things we had done.
They will pass away.
We did it in order to be a model for you to follow
We know that we are children of God We know that the whole world is under the control of the evil one
They tripped over the stone that causes people to trip and fall
The hair on his head was white like wool, as white as snow. His eyes were like a blazing fire.
You did not give up your faith in me
The commander told him he could So Paul stood on the steps and motioned to the crowd
But God has helped me to this day. So I stand here and tell you what is true. I tell it to everyone, both small and great. I have been saying nothing different from what the prophets and Moses said would happen.
In fact, here is what it means to love God. We love him by obeying his commands.
There are also heavenly bodies as well as earthly bodies.
When you take another believer to court you have lost the battle already
Paul’s Sufferings
The conciliation imposed by the game of Loffer Lofe makes it impossible for a hand to fight።
‘Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches. Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will not let that person be hurt at all by the second death.’
It is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven.
He has gone crazy! Why should we listen to him?”
The Holy Spirit came to rest on him in the form of a dove A voice came from heaven
They wrote out the charge against him.
With the shares that members bought, it is just % of the profits the community makes and is an institution that is making % of the dividends።
And you do it to your brothers and sisters
God showed that this message is true by signs and wonders. He showed that it’s true by different kinds of miracles. God also showed that this message is true by the gifts of the Holy Spirit. God gave them out as it pleased him.
But the greatest of them is love
I will not remain in the world any longer
As far as being committed is concerned, I opposed and attacked the church.
They will be slaves and will be treated badly.
The girl was  years old Right away she stood up and began to walk around They were totally amazed at this
Jesus’ Sadness Over Jerusalem
But who are you to judge your neighbor?
But you didnt listen
I tried my best to get him to go to you with the others.
Jesus replied People in this world get married And their parents give them to be married
While the members of the Sanhedrin were throwing stones at Stephen, he prayed.
Until I come, spend your time reading Scripture out loud to one another. Spend your time preaching and teaching.
and he will come near to you
The time grew near for Jesus to be taken up to heaven. So he made up his mind to go to Jerusalem.
It is time for judgment to begin with the household of God.
they should do it with the strength God provides
Wait here
Abrham quit
Suppose I give everything I have to poor people And suppose I give myself over to a difficult life so I can brag If I dont have love I get nothing at all
No one!
Every tongue will have to tell the truth about God
I will speak about what Christ has done through me. I won’t try to speak about anything else. He has been leading the Gentiles to obey God. He has been doing this by what I have said and done.
God did this so that people would seek him. And perhaps they would reach out for him and find him.
Jesus full of the Holy Spirit left the Jordan River
I like movies a lot.
he worshiped him.
Why don't you do it?
The sailors wanted to escape from the ship So they let the lifeboat down into the sea They pretended they were going to lower some anchors from the front of the ship
The great gift that God has for us does not depend on the law
I am thankful to Christ Jesus our Lord He has given me strength I thank him that he considered me faithful I thank him for appointing me to serve him
As far as sin is concerned, we are dead.
The Shadey Holiday is usually played every year from August  to  with girls coming together to celebrate the anniversary of the Emperor's accession።
Is it my business to judge those outside the church?
We're providing goods and tuff for the base of government workers።
I am warning you, brothers and sisters, to watch out for those who try to keep you from staying together. They want to trip you up. They teach you things opposite to what you have learned. Stay away from them.
“My disciples, does the world hate you? Remember that it hated me first.
Instead pay back evil with kind words
Waiting for Our New Bodies
Some say, “His letters sound important. They are powerful. But in person he doesn’t seem like much. And what he says doesn’t amount to anything.”
They must be stopped. They are making trouble for entire families.
Brothers and sisters think of what you were when God chose you Not many of you were considered wise by human standards Not many of you were powerful Not many of you belonged to important families
He did not say anything to them without using a story. But when he was alone with his disciples, he explained everything.
And how can anyone preach without being sent It is written How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news
just as we also have forgiven those who sin against us
Death came because of what a man did Rising from the dead also comes because of what a man did
I was appointed to announce the good news. I was appointed to be an apostle and a teacher.
I knew youd find Abraham
Phrygia and Pamphylia. Others of us are from Egypt and the parts of Libya near Cyrene. Still others are visitors from Rome.
That’s because it has been given to the Gentiles.
Not at all
You have many books.
Stephen was full of God’s grace and power. He did great wonders and signs among the people.
Dont obey them only to please them when they are watching Do it because you are slaves of Christ Be sure your heart does what God wants
Jesus could set people free who were afraid of death. All their lives they were held as slaves by that fear.
I’m writing these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. I’m writing so you will know that you have eternal life.
With his mighty power he led them out of that country.
The Word was in the world.
Then they asked him, “What does God want from us? What works does he want us to do?”
If so then your knowledge destroys that weak brother or sister for whom Christ died
As you enter the home, greet those who live there.
They serve him day and night in his temple.
We know that when God judges those who do evil things he judges fairly
Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city
The angel said to him
He used to eat with the Gentiles. But certain men came from a group sent by James. When they arrived, Peter began to draw back.
So all the Jews and Greeks who lived in Asia Minor heard the word of the Lord
We know that the law is holy But I am not I have been sold to be a slave of sin
There was something that looked like a sea of glass in front of the throne It was as clear as crystal
When Peter saw that disciple, he asked, “Lord, what will happen to him?”
Jesus commanded Peter, “Put your sword away! Shouldn’t I drink the cup of suffering the Father has given me?”
Er was the son of Joshua
Watch out for those dogs. They are people who do evil things. When they circumcise, it is nothing more than a useless cutting of the body.
A husband also must love his wife He must love her just as he loves himself And a wife must respect her husband
So show them that you really love them. Show them why we are proud of you. Then the churches can see it.
It wants what others have
When that day comes you will ask for things in my name
When the demons came out of the man, they went into the pigs.
Do all work miracles
He began to speak boldly in the synagogue
It does not keep track of other people’s wrongs.
teaching.
They ate meals together in their homes.
The foolish ones said to the wise ones, ‘Give us some of your oil. Our lamps are going out.’
But their actions show they dont know him
He has chosen us to live a holy life It wasnt because of anything we have done
So they sent Barnabas to Antioch
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me
The wall of the city had tewelve foundations. Written on them were the names of the tewelve apostles of the Lamb.
Then the angel said to him Put on your clothes and sandals Peter did so
I am coming to see you. Please don’t make me be as bold as I expect to be toward some people.
And command them not to spend their time on stories that are made up They must not waste time on family histories that never end
But what if I do them? Even if you don’t believe me, believe these works. Then you will know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father.”
There will be signs in the sun moon and stars The nations of the earth will be in terrible pain They will be puzzled by the roaring and tossing of the sea
‘Was there ever a city like this great city?’
Dear friend
Remain joined to me, just as I also remain joined to you. No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain joined to the vine. In the same way, you can’t bear fruit unless you remain joined to me.
One day the evil spirit answered them I know Jesus
The officers arrived at the jail.
Dear friend, I know that your spiritual life is going well. I pray that you also may enjoy good health. And I pray that everything else may go well with you.
He took the seven loaves and the fish and gave thanks Then he broke them and gave them to the disciples And the disciples passed them out to the people
They were planning to hide and attack Paul along the way. They wanted to kill him.
You have done well my good slave his master replied You have been faithful in a very small matter So I will put you in charge of ten towns
So people who are dying will be fooled by this evil. These people are dying because they refuse to love the truth. The truth would save them.
But Jesus still did not reply. Pilate was amazed.
Change your joy to sadness.
Brothers and sisters, I want you to know that I planned many times to visit you. But until now I have been kept from coming. My work has produced results among the other Gentiles. In the same way, I want to see results among you.
Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Slaves,
So you see that a person is considered right with God by what they do.
The Baptism and Family Line of Jesus
They are like wild waves of the sea
He also gave sight to many who were blind.
We feel sure we have done what is right. We desire to live as we should in every way.
They teach nothing but human rules.’ ”
That is why the world hates you.
Dont pay back evil with evil
We are full of joy because we expect to share in Gods glory
Let us stop judging one another. Instead, decide not to put anything in the way of a brother or sister.
Here is the main point of what we are saying
The one who plants and the one who waters have the same purpose The Lord will give each of them a reward for their work
“The kingdom of the world has become
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for something to use against Jesus. They wanted to put him to death. But they did not find any proof.
But Christ came to be the high priest of the good things already here now.
They were bewildered because each of them heard their own language being spoken
Jesus warned them not to tell anyone about him
Now I am going to Jerusalem The Holy Spirit compels me
It is meant first for the Jews It is meant also for the Gentiles
I will only be passing through Macedonia.
Then Agrippa spoke to Paul. “Are you trying to talk me into becoming a Christian?” he said. “Do you think you can do that in such a short time?”
When evening came Jesus and his disciples left the city
Instead, you should say, “If it pleases the Lord, we will live and do this or that.”
After six days Jesus took Peter James and John the brother of James with him He led them up a high mountain They were all alone
They will brag and be proud
After this I looked, and I saw the temple in heaven. And it was opened. The temple is the holy tent where the tablets of the covenant law were kept.
Then I saw another angel coming up from the east. He brought the official seal of the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels. They had been allowed to harm the land and the sea.
Jesus told the crowd another story. He said, “The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed. Someone took the seed and planted it in a field.
Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light
The Holy Spirit told me not to let anything keep me from going with them
Is it right for us to pay taxes to Caesar or not?”
How can you say to your friend Let me take the bit of sawdust out of your eye
I think he wont come
But the temple Jesus had spoken about was his body.
What about the dead rising? Haven’t you read in the Book of Moses the story of the burning bush? God said to Moses,
These women were helping to support Jesus and the tewelve disciples with their own money.
to serve Christ Jesus among the Gentiles I have the duty of a priest to preach Gods good news Then the Gentiles will become an offering that pleases God
You have been faithful
A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho. Robbers attacked him.They stripped off his clothes and beat him.
Get rid of the old yeast. Then you can be like a new batch of dough without yeast. That is what you really are.
The chief priests and our rulers handed Jesus over to be sentenced to death They nailed him to a cross
Remember Alexander, the one who works with metal. He did me a great deal of harm.
Peter didn’t really know what to say, because they were so afraid.
Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures.
As your faith continues to grow I hope that my work among you will greatly increase
Love Is Necessary
I have already said it. Now I will say it again.
It is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven
They replied Believe in the Lord Jesus
Jesus told him, “Go and do as he did.”
Thats because everyone will know me
A week later, Jesus’ disciples were in the house again.
You know that God is right and always does what is right. And you know that everyone who does what is right is God’s child.
About midnight Paul and Silas were praying. They were also singing hymns to God. The other prisoners were listening to them.
The worshipers would have been made “clean” once and for all time. They would not have felt guilty for their sins anymore.
Joseph took it down and wrapped it in linen cloth Then he placed it in a tomb cut in the rock No one had ever been buried there
So let us go to him outside the camp. Let us be willing to suffer the shame he suffered.
It was the last and most important day of the feast Jesus stood up and spoke in a loud voice He said Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink
Simon watched as the apostles placed their hands on them. He saw that the Spirit was given to them. So he offered money to Peter and John.
But anyone who does not believe is judged already. They have not believed in the name of God’s one and only Son.
You were like sheep wandering away But now you have returned to the Shepherd He is the one who watches over your souls
Look In Zion I am laying a stone that causes people to trip
Let someone else take his place as leader
Long ago you spoke by the Holy Spirit You spoke through the mouth of our father David who served you You said
You are also members of Gods family
But those who don’t belong to God don’t listen to us.
Here is the meaning of the mystery of the seven stars you saw in my right hand
I am very pleased that you are familiar with Jewish ways You know the kinds of things they argue about
Adam was not the one who was tricked The woman was tricked and became a sinner
But since you claim you can see, you remain guilty.
Mattathias was the son of Amos
She said this because Jews don’t have anything to do with Samaritans.
Here is what we know. No one is made right with God by obeying the law. It is by believing in Jesus Christ.
I have not come down from heaven to do what I want to do. I have come to do what the one who sent me wants me to do.
Jesus, who is called Justus, also sends greetings.
The man was not able to pay So his master gave an order The man his wife his children and all he owned had to be sold to pay back what he owed
Jesus saw two boats at the edge of the water. They had been left there by the fishermen, who were washing their nets.
So did the prophets
But rich people should take pride in their low positions. That’s because they will fade away like wild flowers.
The farmer who works hard should be the first to receive a share of the crops.
The words God accepted Abrahams faith were written not only for Abraham
At that time Jesus said I praise you Father You are Lord of heaven and earth You have hidden these things from wise and educated people But you have shown them to little children
What is hidden will be seen. And what is out of sight will be brought into the open and made known.
We have been made holy by what God wanted We have been made holy because Jesus Christ offered his body once and for all time
Then Jesus went back across the Jordan River. He went to the place where John had been baptizing in the early days. There he stayed.
Do I brag too much about the authority the Lord gave me If I do its because I want to build you up not tear you down And Im not ashamed of that kind of bragging
He said to them, “Every teacher of the law who has become a disciple in the kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house. He brings new treasures out of his storeroom as well as old ones.”
You died. Now your life is hidden with Christ in God.
Herod hasnt either So he sent Jesus back to us As you can see Jesus has done nothing that is worthy of death
It includes inviting guests into her home.
And whoever lives by believing in me will never die
Stop turning my Father’s house into a market!”
They will tell you everything that is happening here.
Some people are worried about how things look on the outside. They are trying to force you to be circumcised.
Jesus said My food is to do what my Father sent me to do
Israel’s sin brought riches to the world.
Abraham was past the time when he could have children. But many children came from that one man.
I want to know Christ better. Yes, I want to know the power that raised him from the dead. I want to join him in his sufferings. I want to become like him by sharing in his death.
Be careful of how you live and what you believe. Never give up. Then you will save yourself and those who hear you.
You also must be ready.
I have already said it. Now I will say it again. Suppose someone preaches a “good news” that is different from what you accepted. That person should be cursed by God.
I'm busy.
Out of their mouths came fire smoke and sulfur
Being a Witness about Jesus
God’s Anger Against Sinners
You believe there is one God. Good! Even the demons believe that. And they tremble!
“The angel is standing on the sea and on the land. Go and take the scroll from him. It is lying open in his hand.”
Give him glory for ever and ever. Amen.
In that way, what the prophet Isaiah had said came true. He had said,
This is my blood of the covenant. It is poured out to forgive the sins of many people.
We would live or die with you.
The Earth Is Made Like New Again
Get rid of the slave woman Get rid of her son
Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples.
Stop crying! Jesus said. “She is not dead. She is sleeping.
His grace made us right with God So now we have received the hope of eternal life as Gods children
Then they shouted, “This is the voice of a god. It’s not the voice of a man.”
Everyone who eats some of this bread will live forever.
The Lord judges me.
This covenant is better than the old one.
Jesus said to them, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
Then he told them many things using stories He said A farmer went out to plant his seed
He will remove sin from Jacobs family
But John tried to stop him. So he told Jesus, “I need to be baptized by you. So why do you come to me?”
Dont you know what the law says
You pretenders Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you He said
“Didn’t the people of Israel hear?”
How many loaves do you have Jesus asked Go and see
Joseph was a Levite from Cyprus
One of them was named Agabus. He stood up and spoke through the Spirit. He said there would not be nearly enough food anywhere in the Roman world. This happened while Claudius was the emperor.
Reports of these things were handed down to us There were people who saw these things for themselves from the beginning They saw them and then passed the word on
They don’t agree that Jesus Christ came in a human body. People like this try to trick others.
Then I heard a voice coming from the four corners of the golden altar The altar stands in front of God
Jesus Rises From the Dead
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know you do.”
Aren’t five sparrows sold for two pennies?
He saved others they said But he cant save himself Hes the king of Israel Let him come down now from the cross Then we will believe in him
“Their voice has gone out into the whole earth.
Simon Peter answered You are the Messiah You are the Son of the living God
Even Christ did not please himself. It is written, “The bad things people have said about you have been aimed at me also.”
Once more Jesus said to them, “I am going away.
Do not be joined to unbelievers.
The traders who sold these things became rich because of Babylon When she suffers they will stand far away Her suffering will terrify them
He will remove sin from Jacobs family
Then Paul spoke up for himself. He said, “I’ve done nothing wrong against the law of the Jews or against the temple. I’ve done nothing wrong against Caesar.”
He has remembered your gifts to poor people
They must not drink blood
So I said goodbye to the believers at Troas and went on to Macedonia.
Our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father loved us By his grace God gave us comfort that will last forever The hope he gave us is good May our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father
At that time Mary got ready and hurried to a town in Judeas hill country
All the nations of the earth will mourn because of him
That’s because what God says will always come true.”
And suppose the ear says, “I am not an eye. So I don’t belong to the body.”
It is written The first man Adam became a living person
His hands and feet had often been chained. But he tore the chains apart. And he broke the iron cuffs on his ankles. No one was strong enough to control him.
They include Phygelus and Hermogenes.
Give him glory for ever and ever Amen
When the commandment gave sin the opportunity, sin tricked me. It used the commandment to put me to death.
Those who do that will be judged
When the people heard this; it had a deep effect on them.
Later the religious leaders sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Jesus. They wanted to trap him with his own words.
A man who had a skin disease came to Jesus On his knees he begged Jesus He said If you are willing to make me clean you can do it
May what you want to happen be done
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace
He takes away the message from their hearts
The believers who had been scattered preached the word everywhere they went.
God has given me the grace to lay a foundation as a wise builder Now someone else is building on it But each one should build carefully
Do good to those who hate you
Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches.’ ”
The traders who sold these things became rich because of Babylon. When she suffers, they will stand far away. Her suffering will terrify them.
It is shameful for women to speak in church meetings
But he made his appeal to the Emperor So I decided to send him to Rome
They shut the mouths of lions.
I'm sorry.
A crowd came together when they heard the sound
The Lamb who is at the center of the area around the thronewill be their shepherd
Two people owed money to a certain lender
So dont live under the control of sin If you do you will think about what sin wants
People will not say, ‘Here it is.’ Or, ‘There it is.’ That’s because God’s kingdom is among you.”
The people causing the trouble saw the commander and his soldiers So they stopped beating Paul
Just then a man in their synagogue cried out He was controlled by an evil spirit
Many people spread their coats on the road. Others spread branches they had cut in the fields.
The first angel blew his trumpet
He was chosen before God created the world But he came into the world for your sake in these last days
Also All who say they believe in the Lord must turn away from evil
May peace and mercy be given to all who follow this rule May peace and mercy be given to the Israel that belongs to God
Philip and Thomas,
In any case I must keep going today and tomorrow and the next day Certainly no prophet can die outside Jerusalem
Day and night they watched the city gates closely in order to kill him
He put his Spirit in our hearts and marked us as his own
It was as clear as crystal
“Give praise to the Lord, the God of Israel!He has come to his people and purchased their freedom.
Be careful Jesus warned them Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees And watch out for the yeast of Herod
They recognized him as the same man who used to sit and beg at the temple gate called Beautiful. They were filled with wonder. They were amazed at what had happened to him.
The angel said, “Come. I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”
“I will be his Father.
Suppose some of them don’t believe God’s word.
David calls him Lord So how can he be Davids son
Wives
I believe that people will rise from the dead Thats why I am on trial
Aeneas Peter said to him Jesus Christ heals you
Barnabas and Saul were sent on their way by the Holy Spirit. They went down to Seleucia.
In the same way help the young men to control themselves
Soon people were making trouble in the whole city
And a wife must respect her husband.
They came from every nation, tribe and people. That’s true no matter what language they spoke.
I was told, “Go and measure the temple of God.
Have you already begun to rule And did you do that without us
He was waiting for the city that God planned and built.
Anyone who wants to take the free gift of the water of life should do so
It was the usual practice at the Passover Feast to let one prisoner go free. The people could choose the one they wanted.
Which do you want?
they told him the one you love is sick
Then we can worship God in a way that pleases him Let us worship him with deep respect and wonder
Then I saw three evil spirits that looked like frogs
I wish I could be with you now. I wish I could change my tone of voice.
Do what you have learned or received or heard from me Follow my example The God who gives peace will be with you
So the one sitting on the cloud swung his blade over the earth.
Once they tried to kill me by throwing stones at me
Even Christ did not please himself It is written The bad things people have said about you have been aimed at me also
He spoke with great power. He taught the truth about Jesus.
“After a long time the master of those slaves returned. He wanted to collect all the money they had earned.
Jesus’ Final Orders to His Disciples
by doing these things remain in Gods love as you wait
As it is I am no longer the one who does these things It is sin living in me that does them
“Fathers, suppose your son asks for a fish. Which of you will give him a snake instead?
They will follow spirits that will fool them.
He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins.
They answered him We are Abrahams children
“My soul is very sad. I feel close to death,” he said to them. “Stay here. Keep watch.”
Don’t pay back evil with evil. Be careful to do what everyone thinks is right.
Others were saying that Elijah had appeared.
All creatures in heaven on earth under the earth and on the sea were speaking The whole creation was speaking I heard all of them say
I know that you were concerned. But you had no chance to show it.
There you will be told what you must do.”
One owed him five hundred silver coins. The other owed him fifty silver coins.
Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David
God removed him and made David their king
Heaven must receive him until the time when God makes everything new He promised this long ago through his holy prophets
In their hearts, they wished they were back in Egypt.
The Spirit helps us understand what God has freely given us.
When they arrived there they prayed for the new believers They prayed that they would receive the Holy Spirit
We thank him because we have heard about your faith in Christ Jesus. We have also heard that you love all God’s people.
Im sure of this
The crowd spoke up. “The Law tells us that the Messiah will remain forever,” they said. “So how can you say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this ‘Son of Man’?”
Gods glory belongs to them So do the covenants
He gave them eyes that could not see.
But whoever loses their life for me will save it.
They received the blessings God had promised
After all, weren’t you cut from a wild olive tree? Weren’t you joined to an olive tree that was taken care of? And wasn’t that the opposite of how things should be done? How much more easily will the natural branches be joined to their own olive tree!
Right away Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he said to them, “Why are you thinking these things?
We don’t live for ourselves only. And we don’t die for ourselves only.
He will send his angels. He will gather his chosen people from all four directions. He will bring them from the ends of the earth to the ends of the heavens.
We pray all these things in keeping with the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ
Here is what I mean
Cornelius answered, “Three days ago at this very hour I was in my house praying. It was three o’clock in the afternoon. Suddenly a man in shining clothes stood in front of me.
But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise.
Philip went down to a city in Samaria There he preached about the Messiah
Paul was about to give reasons for his actions But just then Gallio spoke to them
Jesus Gives Blessings and Warnings
Christ has paid the price for you.
John also spoke strongly to Herod about all the other evil things he had done.
All these people were praised because they had faith.
To be a child of God has nothing to do with human parents.
I died
Anyone who believes in him is not judged.
They will lift you up in their hands
As you eat some of you go ahead and eat your own private meals Because of this one person stays hungry and another gets drunk
Then they began to attack him with their words. “You are this fellow’s disciple!” they said.
We pray that he will make you worthy of his choice. We pray he will make every good thing you want to do come true.
We are witnesses whom God had already chosen.
God will praise you for this.
His love is made complete in us
God is the God who gives peace May he make you holy through and through
“I am the good shepherd.
On that day you will realize that I am in my Father
Here is how you will know I am telling you the truth.
It’s in your mouth and in your heart.”
“‘The Lord will command his angels to take good care of you.
Then both Philip and the official went down into the water. Philip baptized him.
Again the Jews who had challenged him picked up stones to kill him
God planned that those he had chosen would become like his Son. In that way, Christ will be the first and most honored among many brothers and sisters.
You are going through the same struggle you saw me go through As you have heard I am still struggling
Blessed are those who hear it
Then the men who had been sent to Jesus returned to the house They found that the servant was healed
It was just before the Passover Feast.
A voice is heard in RamahIts the sound of crying and deep sadness
When he finished speaking, he turned to Simon. Jesus said, “Go out into deep water. Let down the nets so you can catch some fish.”
But some still had their doubts.
They can barely hear with their ears
Just then three men stopped at the house where I was staying They had been sent to me from Caesarea
I had almost reached Damascus
While Jesus was still talking to the crowd his mother and brothers stood outside They wanted to speak to him
I am afraid of death
They must turn away from evil
Is it hard for a camel to go through the eye of a needle? It is even harder for someone who is rich to enter God’s kingdom!”
He said to Jesus, “I will give you all their authority and glory.
I will not remember their sins anymore.”
They replied Are you from Galilee too Look into it
Today I have become your Father.”
Then the people asked for a king He gave them Saul son of Kish
“Men of Galilee,” they said, “why do you stand here looking at the sky?
Do you really think you need to take sides? You probably think God favors one side over the other!
Evil thoughts come out of a person’s heart. So do murder, adultery, and other sexual sins. And so do stealing, false witness, and telling lies about others.
Moses shook with fear.
They are spirits of demons that perform signs.
So they went.
Be wise in the way you act toward outsiders. Make the most of every opportunity.
All I have is yours, and all you have is mine. Glory has come to me because of my disciples.
Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood has eternal life.
Enoch was the son of Jared
When Peter entered the house, Cornelius met him. As a sign of respect, he fell at Peter’s feet. But Peter made him get up. “Stand up,” he said. “I am only a man myself.”
The crowd spoke up. “The Law tells us that the Messiah will remain forever,” they said.
All of them were filled with hope. So they ate some food.
Jesus answered, “If I tell you, you will not believe me.
I can speak English.
How can this be Nicodemus asked
Here is what the kingdom of heaven is like A king prepared a wedding dinner for his son
Suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him.
She brags to herself
At once the Holy Spirit gave me a vision
I myself will be in them.”
In the temple courtyard he found people selling cattle, sheep and doves. Others were sitting at tables exchanging money.
You can be sure that people like this are twisted and sinful
He has come at the time when God’s work is being completed. He has come to do away with sin by offering himself.
In the earthquake seven thousend people were killed
Give a lot of time and effort to prayer Always be watchful and thankful
The Beast Who Comes Out of the Sea
Many of the Jews who had come to visit Mary saw what Jesus did So they believed in him
It will be like that with bodies that are raised from the dead The body that is planted does not last forever The body that is raised from the dead lasts forever
This is because all of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ You have put him on as if he were your clothes
He went on to say, “What comes out of a person is what makes them ‘unclean.’
Here are the words of Jesus, who holds the seven stars in his right hand.
The one who believes in him will never be put to shame.”
You brag about the law. But when you break it, you rob God of his honor!
And because you belong to him you too are being built together You are being made into a house where God lives through his Spirit
But people are not judged for sin when there is no law.
“A good tree doesn’t bear bad fruit. And a bad tree doesn’t bear good fruit.
Dont destroy the work of God because of food
But Jesus walked right through the crowd and went on his way.
First there were Simon Peter and his brother Andrew.
Titus is my helper. He and I work together among you.
It is written May everyone who doesnt continue to do everything written in the Book of the Law be under Gods curse
Let the Holy Spirit guide and help you when you pray.
Jesus and those with him left the synagogue. Right away they went with James and John to the home of Simon and Andrew.
Dear friends
Arent his brothers James Joseph Simon and Judas
“Lord, I want to be able to see,” the blind man replied.
How much did you bid?
“I believed that I should oppose the name of Jesus of Nazareth. So I did everything I could to oppose his name.
There is one God and Father of all. He is over everything. He is through everything. He is in everything.
God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son will give you grace mercy and peace These blessings will be with us because we love the truth
Jesus Came as a Human Being
It is like a mustard seed. Someone took the seed and planted it in a garden. It grew and became a tree. The birds sat in its branches.”
They said this because Paul was preaching the good news about Jesus
What should we say then Is God unfair Not at all
They are saved because of the law that requires faith
“A second time the voice spoke from heaven. The voice said, ‘Do not say anything is not pure that God has made “clean.” ’
The city had a huge high wall with tewelve gates Twelve angels were at the gates one at each of them On the gates were written the names of the tewelve tribes of Israel
Do you owe taxes? Then pay them.
Many people died from it
In front of everyone she told why she had touched him She also told how she had been healed in an instant
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” he continued.
If we died with him,
Let them see how pure you are. Let them see that your lives are full of respect for God.
Five days later Ananias the high priest went down to Caesarea. Some elders and a lawyer named Tertullus went with him.
Are you going to raise it up in three days?”
When Jesus and the disciples had finished eating, Jesus spoke to Simon Peter. He asked, “Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these others do?”
On the next Sabbath day, almost the whole city gathered. They gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
Listen! I am telling you a mystery.
Not at all! Sin had to be recognized for what it really is.
Pauls Sufferings
Hail and fire mixed with blood were thrown down on the earth
Bless those who call down curses on you.
They arrived at Salamis There they preached Gods word in the Jewish synagogues
Instead let us be wide awake and in full control of ourselves
What if he were on earth? Then he would not be a priest. There are already priests who offer the gifts required by the law.
Even when we were with you we gave you a rule
Ungodly people are surprised that you no longer join them in what they do.
Im not saying this because I need anything
Then came the Feast of Hanukkah at Jerusalem
A thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come so they may have life. I want them to have it in the fullest possible way.
It has just been said,
No one can lay any other foundation than what has already been laid That foundation is Jesus Christ
It is the same with your Father in heaven He does not want any of these little ones to die
“Lord,” he said, “have mercy on my son. He shakes wildly and suffers a great deal. He often falls into the fire or into the water.
“Sit on the floor by my feet”?
And if Satan fights against himself and his helpers are divided he cant stand That is the end of him
So the Jewish leaders said to the man who had been healed, “It is the Sabbath day. The law does not allow you to carry your mat.”
I saw the Lord speaking to me Quick he said Leave Jerusalem at once The people here will not accept what you tell them about me
Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man I am willing to do it he said Be clean Right away the man was healed of his skin disease
Kenan was the son of Enosh
Teacher he said I have obeyed all those commandments since I was a boy
There was also some bread
Then they put a purple robe on him
to set the created world free He didnt want it to rot away Instead God wanted it to have the same freedom and glory that his children have
How old is your son?
It was the night before Herod was going to bring him to trial Peter was sleeping between two soldiers
Then he wrote His name is John
They all wept as they hugged and kissed him.
Jesus Is Taken to the Sanhedrin
It is planted in weakness.
It was made known to the prophets that they were not serving themselves.
So do what we tell you.
Im as old as he is
I beg you dont hurt me
until the day he was taken up to heaven Before Jesus left he gave orders to the apostles he had chosen He did this through the Holy Spirit
If so he could brag about it But he couldnt brag to God
He was and he is and he will come
All these people were praised because they had faith But none of them received what God had promised
“May it happen to me just as you said it would?”
But Christ is faithful as the Son over the house of God. And we are his house if we hold tightly to what we are certain about. We must also hold tightly to the hope we boast in.
When you come, bring my coat. I left it with Carpus at Troas. Also bring my books. Most of all, bring the ones made out of animal skins.
The Lords power was with them
The star opened the Abyss.
Peter said to him We have left everything we had in order to follow you
The seed on the path stands for God’s message in the hearts of those who hear. But then the devil comes.
These people include those who practice witchcraft.
But for us there is only one God. He is the Father. All things came from him, and we live for him.
As the crowds grew larger, Jesus spoke to them. “The people of today are evil,” he said. “They ask for a sign from God. But none will be given except the sign of Jonah.
He says
So they sat down in groups of onehundreds and fiftys.
God has chosen to make known to them the glorious riches of that mystery He has made it known among the Gentiles And here is what it is Christ is in you He is your hope of glory
I do what I dont want to do So I agree that the law is good
To those who are weak I became weak. That was to win the weak. I have become all things to all people. I have done this so that in all possible ways I might save some.
No lies ever came out of his mouth.”
He still hasnt let us know what we will be
At Iconium, Paul and Barnabas went into the Jewish synagogue as usual. They spoke there with great power. Large numbers of Jews and Greeks became believers.
If anyone tries to harm them fire comes from their mouths and eats up their enemies This is how anyone who wants to harm them must die
Titus welcomed our appeal He is also excited about coming to you It was hisown idea
Again Jesus said May peace be with you
May the God who gives hope fill you with great joy. May you have perfect peace as you trust in him. May the power of the Holy Spirit fill you with hope.
Abraham did this, because he believed that God could even raise the dead. In a way, he did receive Isaac back from death.
But their actions show they don’t know him.
Let them see how pure you are. Let them see that your lives are full of respect for God.
Even the officer was alarmed. He realized that he had put Paul, a Roman citizen, in chains.
Those in front and those in back shouted,
Are they Hebrews So am I Do they belong to the people of Israel So do I Are they Abrahams children So am I
He put up with their behavior for about fourty years in the desert.
“Be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees,” he said.
We have a high priest who has been tempted in every way, just as we are.
No matter what happens, live in a way that brings honor to the good news about Christ. Then I will know that you remain strong together in the one Spirit. I will know this if I come and see you or only hear about you. I will know that you work together as one person. I will know that you work to spread the teachings about the good news.
But suppose your hearts are jealous and bitter. Suppose you are concerned only about getting ahead. Then don’t brag about it. And don’t say no to the truth.
Jesus has been taken away from you into heaven But he will come back in the same way you saw him go
you will see Gods glory
So he got up and went to his father
Brothers and sisters I am sure you remember how hard we worked
Here is what we can be sure of when we come to God in prayer
From then on Judas watched for the right time to hand Jesus over to them
He used to eat with the Gentiles. But certain men came from a group sent by James. When they arrived, Peter began to draw back. He separated himself from the Gentiles. That’s because he was afraid of the circumcision group sent by James.
Then Jesus looked up
I hope I can see you soon.
So confess your sins to one another.
Further, my brothers and sisters, be joyful because you belong to the Lord!
During those days another large crowd gathered. They had nothing to eat. So Jesus called for his disciples to come to him. He said,
For three months he was taken care of by his family
Then they lowered the man on his mat through the opening in the roof tiles. They lowered him into the middle of the crowd, right in front of Jesus.
We know that Christ was raised from the dead and will never die again.
They were afraid it would get stuck on the sandbars of Syrtis So they lowered the sea anchor and let the ship be driven along
Stay away from godless chatter.
Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father.
Don’t be afraid of what you are going to suffer.
But he replied, “The one who made me well said to me,
The jailer woke up. He saw that the prison doors were open. He pulled out his sword and was going to kill himself. He thought the prisoners had escaped.
Hold on to what is good
be given to our God for ever and ever.
We Love Because God Loved Us
Night and day he screamed among the tombs and in the hills. He cut himself with stones.
But it’s more important when God is a witness.
This good news of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world It will be a witness to all nations Then the end will come
It was just before the Passover Feast. Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world. It was time for him to go to the Father. Jesus loved his disciples who were in the world. So he now loved them to the very end.
The one who fears does not have perfect love.
God said, ‘Honor your father and mother.’  He also said, ‘Anyone who asks for bad things to happen to their father or mother must be put to death.’
My brothers and sisters, I have been told you are arguing with one another. Some people from Chloe’s house have told me this.
The Last Supper
I am no longer fit to be called your son Make me like one of your hired servants
The second beast was allowed to give breath to this statue so it could speak
The Pharisees heard this. So they said, “This fellow drives out demons by the power of Beelzebul, the prince of demons.”
Paul answered, “I’m already standing in Caesar’s court. This is where I should go on trial.
You used to be slaves of sin But thank God that with your whole heart you obeyed the teachings you were given
The temple was filled with smoke that came from the glory and power of God.
He too had a sharp, curved blade.
When people attack you in one place escape to another What Im about to tell you is true You will not finish going through the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes
We pray this so that the name of our Lord Jesus will receive glory through what you have done.
How terrible it will be for them
You who belong to Christ are Abraham’s seed.
No one in the field should go back to get their coat.
They came to ask Philip for a favor. Philip was from Bethsaida in Galilee.
God remembered Babylon the Great.
They do only what comes naturally.
They will never leave it again.
They were poor They were attacked They were treated badly
I’m not good enough to untie the straps of his sandals.
Again the kingdom of heaven is like a net It was let down into the lake It caught all kinds of fish
And don’t say no to the truth.
We also know that the Son of God has come.
Then I will be able to boast about you on the day Christ returns.
They saw some of his disciples eating food with unclean hands That means they were not washed
there is only one Lord. He is Jesus Christ. All things came because of him, and we live because of him.
So turn away from your sins Turn to God Then your sins will be wiped away The time will come when the Lord will make everything new
“Let’s visit the believers and see how they are doing.”
He asked the priest for letters to the synagogues in Damascus
You know very well how many ways Onesiphorus helped me in Ephesus.
No a person is a Jew only if they are a Jew on the inside And true circumcision means that the heart has been circumcised by the Holy Spirit
The beast and the ten horns you saw will hate the prostitute.
You know that we treated each of you as a father treats his own children.
Accept the person whose faith is weak Dont argue with them where you have differences of opinion
Anyone Who Is Not Against Us Is for Us
they dont pick grapes from bushes
The Lord saved his people
Because you belong to Christ you have been made complete He is the ruler over every power and authority
God does not treat people differently Those people added nothing to my message
Jesus saw her crying
Right away something like scales fell from Saul’s eyes. And he could see again. He got up and was baptized.
There were about twelve men in all
David also gave some to his men.”
Instead, they longed for a better country. They wanted a heavenly one. So God is pleased when they call him their God. In fact, he has prepared a city for them.
Those people are trying hard to win you over
It said This is my Son and I love him I am very pleased with him
When the demon left, the man began to speak.
Anyone who believes in the Son has eternal life
But now they have no excuse for their sin
Anyone who has accepted it has said, ‘Yes. God is truthful.’
Written on them were the names of the tewelve apostles of the Lamb
The chief priests picked up the coins They said Its against the law to put this money into the temple fund It is blood money It has paid for a mans death
The altar was in front of the throne. With the incense he offered the prayers of all God’s people.
Now then, you and the Sanhedrin must make an appeal to the commanding officer. Ask him to bring Paul to you. Pretend you want more facts about his case. We are ready to kill him before he gets here.”
They take over the houses of widows They say long prayers to show off God will punish these men very much
Jesus’ mother stood near his cross. So did his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
His speech won the leaders over
I have no one else like Timothy. He will truly care about how you are doing.
She opened her eyes. When she saw Peter, she sat up.
Jesus saw her He asked her to come to him He said to her Woman you will no longer be disabled I am about to set you free
Even the demons believe that
What if some people fall away from the faith? It won’t be possible to bring them back.
So I made up my mind that I would not make another painful visit to you.
The woman left her water jar and went back to the town She said to the people
The Jewish Leaders Do Not Believe
So eat and drink and do everything else for the glory of God.
In the same way the Holy Spirit helps us when we are weak We dont know what we should pray for But the Spirit himself prays for us He prays through groans too deep for words
Save others by pulling them out of the fire
Still other seed fell on good soil It produced a crop   or  times more than what was planted
They began to call out to him, “We honor you, king of the Jews!”
Who is that old man
Don’t forget to welcome outsiders.
And he could see again
Another angel came and stood at the altar He had a shallow gold cup for burning incense He was given a lot of incense to offer on the golden altar
But it is not for your good
Ive made that very clear to you in every way
Jesus Heals a Man Who Could Not Hear or Speak
Some people come and listen to me and do what I say. I will show you what they are like.
I quickly ate lunch
As he was talking with Cornelius Peter went inside There he found a large group of people
We will turn this important work over to them
You did not choose me Instead I chose you
God Is Faithful
The ax is ready to cut the roots of the trees. All the trees that don’t produce good fruit will be cut down. They will be thrown into the fire.
Then unbelievers will have respect for your everyday life
Peter was sitting out in the courtyard A female servant came to him You also were with Jesus of Galilee she said
So whoever opposes the authorities opposes leaders whom God has appointed. Those who do that will be judged.
However nine years later it was said that by the French in two thousend one any hatch could be learned።
Be ready to serve God in good times and bad.
And it was God who gave him glory So your faith and hope are in God
They don’t plant or gather crops.
God was pleased to have his whole nature living in Christ
His master replied You evil lazy slave So you knew that I harvest where I have not planted You knew that I gather crops where I have not scattered seed
But suppose a widow has children or grandchildren.
Then he called the believers and especially the widows He brought her to them They saw that she was alive
You have made yourselves pure by obeying the truth. So you have an honest and true love for each other. So love one another deeply, from your hearts.
Then one of the elders said to me, “Do not cry! The Lion of the tribe of Judah has won the battle. He is the Root of David. He is able to break the seven seals and open the scroll.”
And here is something you can be just as sure of I take pride in what Christ Jesus our Lord has done for you through my work
Im ashamed to have to say that I was too weak for that
So run in a way that will get you the prize
How foolish! What you plant doesn’t come to life unless it dies.
which says a pair of doves or two young pigeons
The elders will not accept him.
The four living creatures said, “Amen.” And the elders fell down and worshiped.
The people who had brought false charges against Stephen took off their coats. They placed them at the feet of a young man named Saul.
So I thought I should try to get the brothers to visit you ahead of time. They will finish the plans for the large gift you had promised.
We would have to go and buy food for all this crowd
Work to spread the good news.
Peter and John continued to preach the word of the Lord and tell people about Jesus Then they returned to Jerusalem On the way they preached the good news in many villages in Samaria
In the same way Jesus has been found worthy of greater honor than Moses
We will not all die.
The high priest carries the blood of animals into the Most Holy Room
But lead good lives among them
Jonah was in the belly of a huge fish for three days and three nights. Something like that will happen to the Son of Man. He will spend three days and three nights in the grave.
Love for money causes all kinds of evil. Some people want to get rich.
But I want to test you I want to find out if you really love God I want to compare your love with that of others
Their foolish hearts became dark
Treasure is kept in clay jars. In the same way, we have the treasure of the good news in these earthly bodies of ours. That shows that the mighty power of the good news comes from God. It doesn’t come from us.
The people of Sodom and Gomorrah and the towns around them also did evil things. They freely committed sexual sins. They committed sins of the worst possible kind. There is a fire that never goes out. Those people are an example of those who are punished with it.
But it is clear that this does not include God himself. That’s because God put everything under Christ.
The Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. We have seen it and are witnesses to it.
All you need to say is simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No.’ Anything more than this comes from the evil one.Be Kind to Others
Where these sins have been forgiven, an offering for sin is no longer necessary.
The kingdom of God is not a matter of talk. It is a matter of power.
But everything the light shines on can be seen. And everything that the light shines on becomes a light.
“You have faith.
We went on ahead to the ship. We sailed for Assos. There we were going to take Paul on board. He had planned it this way because he wanted to go to Assos by land.
No one tears a piece out of new clothes to patch old clothes.
Dear children
So he ordered that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ.
I will give that person the right to sit with me on my throne.In the same way, I had victory. Then I sat down with my Father on his throne.
The glorious brightness of Jesus’ coming will destroy the man of sin.
And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes
And you say, ‘If we had lived in the days of those who lived before us, we wouldn’t have done what they did. We wouldn’t have helped to kill the prophets.’
I didnt see a temple in the city Thats because the Lamb and the Lord God who rules over all are its temple
When the child was eight days old, he was circumcised. At the same time he was named Jesus. This was the name the angel had given him before his mother became pregnant.
Later Jesus was having dinner at Matthew’s house. Many tax collectors and sinners came. They ate with Jesus and his disciples.
I dont like when its silent the forces he thinks are doing a strong job of not tilting the inner life of the people።
“Lord, you are the King over all.Now let me, your servant, go in peace.That is what you promised.
May the Lord judge you!”
So even though I am away from you in body, I am with you in spirit. And I am glad to see that you are controlling yourselves. I am happy that your faith in Christ is so strong.
Anyone who speaks in a language they had not known before doesn’t speak to people. They speak only to God.
and you are all amazed.
So they pulled their boats up on shore. Then they left everything and followed him.
My son Timothy I am giving you this command It is in keeping with the prophecies once made about you By remembering them you can fight the battle well
There in front of them his appearance was changed His face shone like the sun His clothes became as white as the light
He is full of energy
If you live under the power of sin, you will die.
The jailer brought them into his house He set a meal in front of them
Anyone who is not with me is against me Anyone who does not gather sheep with me scatters them
They won
Look at the big letters Im using as I write to you with my own hand
The words I spoke to you were like milk not like solid food You werent ready for solid food yet
More than fourty of them are waiting in hiding to attack him They have promised that they will not eat or drink anything until they have killed him They are ready now
What should we say then?
“Return home and tell how much God has done for you.” So the man went away.
Dont you know that when you give yourselves to obey someone you become that persons slave
Dionysius was one of them He was a member of the Areopagus A woman named Damaris also became a believer And so did some others
He is full of joy when he hears the grooms voice
You have put everything under their control
The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air Out of the temple came a loud voice from the throne It said It is done
I consider Silas to be a faithful brother. With his help I have written you this short letter.
When these things happen to you be glad and jump for joy
Using many stories like these Jesus spoke the word to them He told them as much as they could understand
And now you will have to be silent. You will not be able to speak until after John is born.
There’s a man here that Felix left as a prisoner.
And measure the altar where the people are worshiping
When God made his promise, he gave his word. He did this so we would have good reason not to give up. Instead, we have run to take hold of the hope set before us.
Then Jesus said to them, “What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day? Should we do good? Or should we do evil? Should we save life? Or should we destroy it?”
But I am writing what amounts to a new command
But we cant say everything about these things now
From Jerusalem all the way around to Illyricum I have finished preaching. In those places, I preached the good news about Christ.
I hope I can come to you soon. But now I am writing these instructions to you.
When he said this, they picked up stones to kill him. But Jesus hid himself. He slipped away from the temple area.
Should we sin because we are not ruled by the law but by God’s grace?
I have many people in this city
What I’m about to tell you is true. If he finds that sheep, he is happier about the one than about the nighnity ninethat didn’t wander off.
In the synagogue there was a man controlled by a demon, an evil spirit.
The message as it has been taught can be trusted. He must hold firmly to it.
Your own Law says that the witness of two people proves the truth about something.
Then the woman came and fell at his feet. She knew what had happened to her. She was shaking with fear. But she told him the whole truth.
You are also members of God’s family.
He has gone into heaven He is at Gods right hand Angels authorities and powers are under his control
The sea gave up the dead that were in it
I will never leave you
“Then the father went to the other son. He said the same thing. The son answered, ‘I will, sir.’ But he did not go.
He is not here! He has risen, just as he said he would! Come and see the place where he was lying.
This is a hard teaching
The young men of Wag Shum beg their God to bring them to peace every year።
You remained strong in a great battle that was full of suffering
People promise things by someone greater than themselves.
“The weeds are pulled up and burned in the fire. That is how it will be on judgment day.
What did Moses command you he replied
It gets drunk
He asked what time his son got better They said to him Yesterday at one oclock in the afternoon the fever left him
People will be saying that everything is peaceful and safe.
Here is what the kingdom of heaven will be like at that time Ten bridesmaids took their lamps and went out to meet the groom
His appointed chosen and faithful followers will be with him
An angel of the Lord appeared to them.
Some were made fun of and even whipped. Some were held by chains. Some were put in prison.
Even a sinner lends to sinners, expecting them to pay everything back.
A good tree cant bear bad fruit And a bad tree cant bear good fruit
As he taught, he said, “Watch out for the teachers of the law. They like to walk around in long robes. They like to be greeted with respect in the market.
The Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were only two days away The chief priests and the teachers of the law were plotting to arrest Jesus secretly They wanted to kill him
But they were not aware of it
My dear children Im writing this to you so that you will not sin But suppose someone does sin Then we have a friend who speaks to the Father for us He is Jesus Christ the Blameless One
Iam writing this letter.I am sending it to you,my dear friend Gaius.
So be joyful, you heavens!
But some have died.
Then God’s peace will watch over your hearts and your minds. He will do this because you belong to Christ Jesus. God’s peace can never be completely understood.
God has formed us for that very purpose He has given us the Holy Spirit as a down payment The Spirit makes us sure of what is still to come
But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong.
They aren’t covered with evil like dirty clothes.
So the people were stirred up. The elders and the teachers of the law were stirred up too. They arrested Stephen and brought him to the Sanhedrin.
Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father, who sent him.
He replied My mother and brothers are those who hear Gods word and do what it says
Melchizedek has no father or mother He has no family line His days have no beginning His life has no end He remains a priest forever In this way he is like the Son of God
The power of the horses was in their mouths and in their tails The tails were like snakes whose heads could bite
What is a son of man that you take care of him
Every year Jesus’ parents went to Jerusalem for the Passover Feast.
We comforted youWe really wanted you to live in a way that is worthy of God
Jesus said, “Shall I come and heal him?”
Right away they left the boat and their father and followed Jesus
He came
I have shown you to them. And I will continue to show you to them. Then the love you have for me will be in them. I myself will be in them.”
We havent taken advantage of anyone
And suppose the one inside answers Dont bother me
Joseph was a Levite from Cyprus.
The people of the world can’t hate you. But they hate me.
Leave me
The ship was caught by the storm We could not keep it sailing into the wind So we gave up and were driven along by the wind
They began to speak in languages they had not known before The Spirit gave them the ability to do this
But I dont brag so that no one will think more of me than they should
You have not said no to me
Priscilla and Aquila heard him So they invited him to their home There they gave him a better understanding of the way of God
“We know that the man who healed you is a sinner.”
When people controlled by evil spirits saw him they fell down in front of him The spirits shouted You are the Son of God
We said goodbye to each other. Then we went on board the ship. And they returned home.
I was given a long stick that looked like a measuring rod.
He complained to God about Israel.
Abraham had held on tightly to the promises But he was about to offer his one and only son
People promise things by someone greater than themselves Giving your word makes a promise certain It puts an end to all arguing
Jesus answered, “What I’m about to tell you is true. No one can enter God’s kingdom unless they are born with water and the Holy Spirit.
Dear friends we have these promises from God So let us make ourselves pure from everything that makes our bodies and spirits impure
They dont accept authority
They didnt think it was important to know God So God let them continue to have evil thoughts They did things they shouldnt do
God wants you to be made holy. He wants you to stay away from sexual sins.
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace.Paul Prays and Gives Thanks
No one could heal her.
In fact, there were only eight.
Turn away from your sins.
No one has ever seen God.
Paul Prays for the Ephesians
But there will be glory honor and peace for everyone who does good That is meant first for the Jews It is also meant for the Gentiles
But they were all afraid of him. They didn’t believe he was really one of Jesus’ followers.
Its true that I havent been trained as a speaker But I do have knowledge
You will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a manger.”
You will hear about wars. You will also hear people talking about future wars. Don’t be alarmed. Those things must happen. But the end still isn’t here.
Dont desire to commit sexual sins like people who dont know God
Both of them did what was right in the sight of God
I love you because of the truth that is alive in us This truth will be with us forever
And my sickness was hard on you But you werent mean to me
Jesus answered, “You were given power from heaven. If you weren’t, you would have no power over me.
God has commanded us to believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ
Jesus Rises From the Dead
But suppose you receive a beating for doing wrong and you put up with it
But God is the builder of everything
I am so concerned about my people, who are members of my own race. I am ready to be cursed, if that would help them. I am even willing to be separated from Christ.
on earth as it is done in heaven.
There are many rooms in my Father’s house. If this were not true, would I have told you that I am going there? Would I have told you that I would prepare a place for you there?
So this priest also had to have something to offer
Obey the governors
I know how much you want to help.
So Jesus told him Do quickly what you are going to do
She became a mother even though she was too old to have children.
“What do you want?” Jesus asked.
Then he gave a loud shout like the roar of a lion When he shouted the voices of the seven thunders spoke
He lived in the desert until he appeared openly to Israel
They can speak to themselves and to God
I dont want to eat
Until you have obeyed completely I will be ready to punish you every time you dont obey
So here is what I’m asking you to do. Don’t lose hope because I am suffering for you.
Finally, my brothers and sisters, always think about what is true. Think about what is noble, right and pure. Think about what is lovely and worthy of respect. If anything is excellent or worthy of praise, think about those kinds of things.
The governors soldiers took Jesus into the palace which was called the Praetorium All the rest of the soldiers gathered around him
I am happy because of what I am suffering for you. My suffering joins with and continues the sufferings of Christ. I suffer for his body, which is the church.
I try to get in, but someone else always goes down ahead of me.”
He did not hold peoples sins against them
So he sent for ten of his slaves. He gave them each about three months’ pay. ‘Put this money to work until I come back,’ he said.
We have to stop this thing. It must not spread any further among the people. We have to warn these men. They must never speak to anyone in Jesus’ name again.”
He must not push people around.
Our minds have been cleansed from a sense of guilt Our bodies have been washed with pure water
burn her with fire.
What I’m about to tell you is true.
But you each have your own gift from God
“Here is what the kingdom of heaven is like. A king prepared a wedding dinner for his son.
We know that Christ was raised from the dead and will never die again. Death doesn’t control him anymore.
The day after that we crossed over to Samos
I, Paul, write this greeting in my own handwriting.
I want to preach it because Im not ashamed of the good news
Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus. He didn’t want to spend time in Asia Minor.
You gave them to me.
So anyone making a promise in the name of the altar makes a promise in the name of it and everything on it
Then I heard the noise of a huge crowd It sounded like the roar of rushing waters and like loud thunder The people were shouting
He told them to believe in the one who was coming after him. Jesus is that one.”
They chose a lie instead of the truth about God
sent his Son to give his life to pay for our sins
“Leave her alone,” Jesus replied. “The perfume was meant for the day I am buried.
Jesus’ disciples asked him, “Rabbi, who sinned? Was this man born blind because he sinned? Or did his parents sin?”
But many people who saw them leaving recognized them They ran from all the towns and got there ahead of them
All I wanted to do was hurt them I even went looking for them in the cities of other lands
Then the high priest stood up in front of them. He asked Jesus, “Aren’t you going to answer? What are these charges these men are bringing against you?”
“I don’t know,” he said.
Anyone who has been stealing must never steal again. Instead, they must work. They must do something useful with their own hands. Then they will have something to give to people in need.
If it seems good for me to go also, they will go with me.
The one who serves must not hold anything against anyone.
He went to the store
You say, “I am rich.
In the past, God spoke to our people through the prophets. He spoke at many times. He spoke in different ways.
The message we preach is not about ourselves. Our message is about Jesus Christ.
Is it right to pay the royal tax to Caesar or not
They blindfolded him. They said, “Prophesy! Who hit you?”
Then I saw something that looked like a sea of glass glowing with fire
But Paul didnt think it was wise to take him Mark had deserted them in Pamphylia
She tried
They do it to get a crown that will not last.
The Lord will pay him back for what he has done
Later Jesus appeared to the  disciples as they were eating. He spoke firmly to them because they had no faith. They would not believe those who had seen him after he rose from the dead.
Without faith it is impossible to please God
There are thousands and thousands of them.
There was no longer any sea.
took his place at the table.
“But God said to him, ‘You foolish man! Tonight I will take your life away from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?’
Paul spoke to the people
But if the unbeliever leaves, let that person go.
Growing Up Together in the Body of Christ
The Lord’s power was with them. Large numbers of people believed and turned to the Lord.
Suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him
As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him. He fell on his knees before Jesus. “Good teacher,” he said, “what must I do to receive eternal life?”
They were amazed at the gracious words they heard from his lips.
The councils are responsible for monitoring where the approved budget has come from the approval of the budget needed for the country።
The believers who had been scattered preached the word everywhere they went
A woman has to stay married to her husband as long as he lives. If he dies, she is free to marry anyone she wants to. But the one she marries must belong to the Lord.
now it has been made known to the Lord’s people.
What did you go out into the desert to see
I tell you, it will be the same in heaven. There will be great joy when one sinner turns away from sin. Yes, there will be more joy than for  godly people who do not need to turn away from their sins.
“But Rabbi,” they said, “a short time ago the Jews there tried to kill you with stones. Are you still going back?”
If it does it will cause trouble And it will make many people impure
They stirred up the crowds and got them all worked up.
What I tell you in the dark, speak in the daylight. What is whispered in your ear, shout from the rooftops.
I remember your tears I long to see you so that I can be filled with joy
We are full of joy because we expect to share in God’s glory.
Paul’s Advice to Give Freely
How awful it will be in those days for pregnant women! How awful for nursing mothers! There will be terrible suffering in the land. There will be great anger against those people.
Brothers and sisters, we are asking you to love one another more and more.
Suppose I speak in the languages of human beings or of angels.
Brothers will hand over brothers to be killed Fathers will hand over their children Children will rise up against their parents and have them put to death
The next day John was there again with two of his disciples.
Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry.
Suppose someone doesnt know how to manage his own family Then how can he take care of Gods church
Then smoke rose up from it like the smoke from a huge furnace
When did we see you as a stranger and invite you in When did we see you needing clothes and give them to you
So God gave his word when he made his promise. He wanted to make it very clear that his purpose does not change. He wanted those who would receive what was promised to know this.
So his faith made him right with God.”
Neither of them had the money to pay him back. So he let them go without paying. Which of them will love him more?”
Then a voice told him Get up Peter Kill and eat
When you pray be faithful
Show the believers how to be pure
They replied, “Believe in the Lord Jesus.
We are fools for Christ.
They are the Holy Spirit the birth of Jesus and the death of Jesus And the three of them agree
The sword is Gods word
He will overpower them and kill them.
The people were shouting
I held firmly to the teachings passed down by my people
Didn’t Moses give you the law? But not one of you obeys the law.
It is like a mustard seed, which is the smallest of all seeds on earth.
He's lazy.
It came with the Holy Spirits help
Each of the four living creatures had six wingsEach creature was covered all over with eyes
Thats what you have heard from the beginning
There will be no rest for anyone who receives the mark of its name.”
Long ago Isaiah the prophet wroteI will send my messenger ahead of you He will prepare your way
It doesn’t help anyone.
Instead, I wrote you so that in the sight of God you could see for yourselves how faithful you are to us.
The angel measured the wall as human beings measure things It was two hundred feet thick
They dont have any barns at all
Jesus was coming up out of the water. Just then he saw heaven being torn open. Jesus saw the Holy Spirit coming down on him like a dove.
That includes bringing up children
fits of anger.
They teach nothing but human rules
I had seen an angel standing on the sea and on the land. This angel raised his right hand to heaven.
That was why the man’s parents said, “He is an adult. Ask him.”
Which one is easier?
But a new time is coming In fact it is already here True worshipers will worship the Father in the Spirit and in truth
You are joined to Christ and belong to him And Christ is joined to God
Let we not become tired of doing well
I took the little scroll from the angel’s hand and ate it.
Our God is a God who strengthens and encourages you May he give you the same attitude toward one another that Christ Jesus had
You have fallen away from Gods grace
“Blessed are those invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb!”
“What can we do with these men?” they asked. “Everyone living in Jerusalem knows they have performed an unusual miracle. We can’t say it didn’t happen.
There will be trouble for anyone who has its mark on their forehead or their hand!
leave her naked.
Now I want to talk about some other matters, brothers and sisters. We taught you how to live in a way that pleases God. In fact, that is how you are living. In the name of the Lord Jesus we ask and beg you to do it more and more.
The people were trying to kill Paul. But news reached the commander of the Roman troops. He heard that people were making trouble in the whole city of Jerusalem.
But we must share in his sufferings if we want to share in his glory.
At that time Jesus was full of joy through the Holy Spirit
Lend to them without expecting to get anything back
We owe it all to Christ, who has loved us.
It is written, “The bad things people have said about you have been aimed at me also.”
Then they worshiped him With great joy they returned to Jerusalem
After the shepherds had seen him, they told everyone. They reported what the angel had said about this child.
Why not
Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life.
You judge by human standards I dont judge anyone
The next day we sailed from there. We arrived near Chios.
Jesus answered Here is the most important one Moses said Israel listen to me The Lord is our God The Lord is one
You have won the battle over the evil one.
Paul and Barnabas preached the good news in the city of Derbe They won large numbers of followers Then they returned to Lystra Iconium and Antioch
Jesus spoke to the people again. He said, “I am the light of the world. Anyone who follows me will never walk in darkness. They will have that light. They will have life.”
It is like a mustard seed which is the smallest of all seeds on earth
His feet were like bronze metal glowing in a furnace. His voice sounded like rushing waters.
Regardless, however, a situation should not occur in the middle of a war that would prevent innocent civilians from working and eating።
What would it benefit if we report?
John was a witness about the Word. John cried out and said, “This was the one I was talking about. I said, ‘He who comes after me is more important than I am. He is more important because he existed before I was born.’ ”
He made a promise in the name of the God who lives for ever and ever.
But in fact you need someone to teach you all over again
I know what you meant
Jesus and his disciples came to Jericho. They were leaving the city. A large crowd was with them. A blind man was sitting by the side of the road begging. His name was Bartimaeus. Bartimaeus means Son of Timaeus.
It always protects
Anyone who loves their life will lose it
suffering for everyone who does evil That is meant first for the Jews It is also meant for the Gentiles
Then the evil spirit goes and takes seven other spirits more evil than itself.
So I do not run like someone who doesn’t run toward the finish line. I do not fight like a boxer who hits nothing but air.
Here is what we can be sure of when we come to God in prayer. If we ask anything in keeping with what he wants, he hears us.
When you sin, the pay you get is death.
Jesus asked him What is your name
Scripture says, “He will rule them with an iron scepter.”
So the man watched them closely He expected to get something from them
These people complain and find fault with others.
Someone asked him, “Lord, are only a few people going to be saved?” He said to them,
I always do it that way.
Jesus said to them, “I did one miracle,
I am the Root and the Son of David.
Because of his faith, Moses left Egypt. It wasn’t because he was afraid of the king’s anger.
The people of the island were unusually kind It was raining and cold
And you show it when you keep on helping them.
In that very place they will be called ‘children of the living God.’ ”
It says that “everything” has been put under him. But it is clear that this does not include God himself. That’s because God put everything under Christ.
Now I want to talk about some other matters Brothers and sisters pray for us
If you belonged to the world it would love you like one of its own
Those people are trying hard to win you over. But it is not for your good. They want to take you away from us. They want you to commit yourselves to them.
Isnt this Josephs son they asked
“Rabbi, eat something!”
When I became a man I put the ways of childhood behind me
But now he has promised, “Once more I will shake the earth. I will also shake the heavens.”
The God who has chosen you is faithful. He will do all these things.
In the same way, after supper he took the cup. He said, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood.
Then that person doesn’t belong to God. But whoever follows Christ’s teaching belongs to the Father and the Son.
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will make that person a pillar in the temple of my God. They will never leave it again. I will write the name of my God on them. I will write the name of the city of my God on them. This is the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God. I will also write my new name on them.
No way!
These witnesses have power to close up the sky. Then it will not rain while they are prophesying.
He said to Moses
Who are the engineer Kitaw Ejigu
“Here I am. Here are the children God has given me.”
Then the people asked for a king. He gave them Saul, son of Kish.
Right away Jesus called out to them Be brave It is I Dont be afraid
I was a stranger But you did not invite me in I needed clothes But you did not give me any I was sick and in prison But you did not take care of me
I am the First and the Last
The Pharisees came and began to ask Jesus questions. They wanted to test him. So they asked him for a sign from heaven.
I'm glad to hear that.
They shared everything they had.
The Holy Spirit and the bride say
So obey God
You think you can make foolish people wise. You act like you’re teaching little children. You think that the law gives you all knowledge and truth.
Then the Morning Star will rise in your hearts.
So many people gathered that there was no room left There was not even room outside the door And Jesus preached the word to them
I am a witness that this is God’s Chosen One.”
While they were eating Jesus took bread He gave thanks and broke it He handed it to his disciples and said Take this and eat it This is my body
“Father, you are holy. The world does not know you, but I know you. Those you have given me know you have sent me.
One of the women listening was from the city of Thyatira. Her name was Lydia, and her business was selling purple cloth.
The Samaritan woman said to him, “You are a Jew.
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than anyone.
Then they are fooling themselves.
He called in a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud.
We always carry around the death of Jesus in our bodies. In that way, the life of Jesus can be shown in our bodies.
How did he open your eyes?”
Sin, Faith and Duty
He has gone crazy Why should we listen to him
You must listen to everything he tells you
Peter sent them all out of the room
“Do not think I will bring charges against you in front of the Father.
May the Lord judge you
I know there is nothing good in my desires controlled by sin. I want to do what is good, but I can’t.
Then I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice that sounded like thunder,
Through that cross the ways of the world have been crucified as far as I am concerned And I have been crucified as far as the ways of the world are concerned
Philip went down to a city in Samaria. There he preached about the Messiah.
I’m sending Onesimus back to you. All my love for him goes with him.
In those days Peter stood up among the believers About  of them were there
It was one thoused four hundred miles long.
So God’s people must be patient and faithful.
In fact, breaking the law is sin.
Dont we have the right to eat and drink
But love your enemies.
Outside are those who worship statues of gods
I'll join you later.
“Here’s a good seat for you”? Would you say to the poor man,
John was like a lamp that burned and gave light
The one who believes in him will never be put to shame
All the trouble came to an end Then Paul sent for the believers After encouraging them he said goodbye He then left for Macedonia
Then you will eat and drink at my table in my kingdom. And you will sit on thrones, judging the  tribes of Israel.
In the sight of God, we make our appeal to everyone’s sense of what is right and wrong.
Anna came up to Jesus family at that moment She gave thanks to God
From then on, Judas watched for the right time to hand Jesus over to them.
Mary Visits Elizabeth
Judas accepted their offer. He watched for the right time to hand Jesus over to them. He wanted to do it when no crowd was around.
And in that place many believed in Jesus.
“He accepts people from every nation.
We are no worse if we dont eat
He knows how to swim.
So let us never stop offering to God our praise through Jesus.
But our people refused to obey Moses They would not accept him
He entered the house of God and took the holy bread. He ate the bread that only priests were allowed to eat. David also gave some to his men.”
You go to the feast. I am not going up to this feast.
Finally the right time came Herod gave a banquet on his birthday He invited his high officials and military leaders He also invited the most important men in Galilee
He said, “People of Athens! I see that you are very religious in every way.
Gods power has given us everything we need to lead a godly life All of this has come to us because we know the God who chose us He chose us because of his own glory and goodness
We stayed there several days Then a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea
May there be peace and glory in the highest heaven
As long as your own children are young, they are no different from slaves in your house. They are no different, even though they will own all the property.
They will cry out
They arent covered with evil like dirty clothes
The next day the crowd that had stayed on the other side of the lake realized something
“How terrible for you authorities on the law! You have taken away the key to the door of knowledge. You yourselves have not entered. And you have stood in the way of those who were entering.”
They were bewildered because each of them heard their own language being spoken.
“The ten horns you saw are ten kings. They have not yet received a kingdom. But for one hour they will receive authority to rule together with the beast.
Then some boats arrived from Tiberias It was near the place where the people had eaten the bread after the Lord gave thanks
All who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them.
Paul wanted to take him along on the journey. So he circumcised Timothy because of the Jews who lived in that area. They all knew that Timothy’s father was a Greek.
That is better by far.
Suppose someone is ashamed of me and my words. The Son of Man will come in his glory and in the glory of the Father and the holy angels.
Everyone tried to touch Jesus Power was coming from him and healing them all
Brothers and sisters, I ask you to join me in my struggle. Join me by praying to God for me. I ask this through the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ. Pray for me with the love the Holy Spirit provides.
On the day I saved you I helped you
Greet Herodion my fellow Jew
Why should any of you think it is impossible for God to raise the dead?
She gave birth to a son
The Gentiles have shared in the Jews’ spiritual blessings.
Gods Wonderful Plan for the Gentiles
Even Christ did not please himself
EPHESIANS 
Jesus answered her, “You do not know what God’s gift is. And you do not know who is asking you for a drink.
Then the disciple Jesus loved said to Simon Peter, “It is the Lord!”
So Jesus told him, “Do quickly what you are going to do.”
So I tell you, when you pray for something, believe that you have already received it. Then it will be yours.
Come near to God and he will come near to you Wash your hands you sinners Make your hearts pure you who cant make up your minds
He chose you to be saved by accepting the good news that we preach.
Her parents were amazed.
God set me apart to tell others his good news. writing this letter.
You also were with Jesus that Nazarene she said
I will even spend myself.
That day Herod and Pilate became friends Before this time they had been enemies
Here are the words of Jesus who is holy and true He holds the key of David No one can shut what he opens And no one can open what he shuts He says
Paul gathered some sticks and put them on the fire. A poisonous snake was driven out by the heat. It fastened itself on Paul’s hand.
“Later, the other bridesmaids also came. ‘Sir! Sir!’ they said. ‘Open the door for us!’
Suppose people say bad things about you because you believe in Christ.
A third of the ships were destroyed
Every mountain and island was moved out of its place.
Heal the sick people who are there. Tell them, ‘God’s kingdom has come near to you.’
He must be faithful to his wife
Think about how kind God is! Also think about how firm he is!
At last we came to Rome.
By his power he will change our earthly bodies They will become like his glorious body
Israel’s sin brought riches to the world. Their loss brings riches to the Gentiles. So then what greater riches will come when all Israel turns to God!
Do everything you can to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos Send them on their way
Jesus said, “You have now seen him.
Greetings.
Turn all your worries over to him He cares about you
He did it so that we would die as far as sins are concerned
We remain pure We understand completely what it means to serve God We are patient and kind We serve him in the power of the Holy Spirit We serve him with true love
When they have finished speaking the beast that comes up from the Abyss will attack them He will overpower them and kill them
The prophets searched very hard and with great care to find out about this salvation. They spoke about the grace that was going to come to you.
A dog returns to where it has thrown up
I just need a break.
The law that was given to the people called for the priestly system. That system began with Levi.
They didn’t think it was important to know God.
He wasn’t just born as we are. He also died on the cross.
You put up with that woman Jezebel. She calls herself a prophet.
If anyone says anything to you say that the Lord needs them The owner will send them right away
Instead go to those who believe in me Tell them I am ascending to my Father
Their mouths are full of curses and bitterness
They were not able to remove the worshipers feelings of guilt
You want something but you dont have it So you kill You want what others have but you cant get what you want So you argue and fight You dont have what you want because you dont ask God
That’s also why you pay taxes. The authorities serve God. Ruling takes up all their time.
He saw that the man had faith to be healed.
I wish I had seen her.
So confess your sins to one another
You foolish people! Didn’t the one who made the outside make the inside also?
He has anointed me to announce the good news to poor people
The believers heard this Then they raised their voices together in prayer to God Lord and King
Then they will pay no attention to Jewish stories that aren’t true.
You know what has happened all through the area of Judea It started in Galilee after John preached about baptism
We dont put anything in anyones way So no one can find fault with our work for God
All who were appointed for eternal life believed
But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong
They will see his face.
Then they can provide for people when they are in great need.
Anyone who serves the Lord must not be hard to get along with
I looked, and there in front of me was a pale horse!
A man named Simon was passing by He was from Cyrene He was the father of Alexander and Rufus Simon was on his way in from the country The soldiers forced him to carry the cross
The world is guilty as far as godliness is concerned. That’s because I am going to the Father, where you can’t see me anymore.
So I would have liked to keep Onesimus with me. And he could take your place in helping me.
I heard all of them say,
That’s because she and her children are slaves.
Night and day the seed comes up and grows. It happens whether the farmer sleeps or gets up. He doesn’t know how it happens.
All of us were baptized into Christ Jesus Dont you know that we were baptized into his death
One thing has become clear I am being held by chains because I am a witness for Christ All the palace guards and everyone else know it
I can’t get up and give you anything.’
Instead serve one another in love
But don’t use your freedom as an excuse to live under the power of sin.
I was glad when Stephanas Fortunatus and Achaicus arrived They have supplied me with what you couldnt give me
Then he ordered that Paul be kept under guard in Herods palace
Moses had faith So he refused to be called the son of Pharaohs daughter That happened after he had grown up
The wisdom of this world is foolish in Gods eyes
He described the medical problem that he said My government should see us with attention።
Another angel came out of the temple in heaven He too had a sharp curved blade
My dear brothers and sisters, listen to me. Hasn’t God chosen those who are poor in the world’s eyes to be rich in faith? Hasn’t he chosen them to receive the kingdom? Hasn’t he promised it to those who love him?
My mind tells me that what I say is true It is guided by the Holy Spirit
I pray to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is the glorious Father. I keep asking him to give you the wisdom and understanding that come from the Holy Spirit. I want you to know God better.
The Son of Man will send out his angels. They will weed out of his kingdom everything that causes sin. They will also get rid of all who do evil.
But whoever speaks evil things against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven. Their guilt will last forever.”
It told lies about God and about the place where God lives.
Be full of sorrow. Cry and weep. Change your laughter to mourning. Change your joy to sadness.
So God has put everything under his Son.
So use your bodies in a way that honors God
Jared was the son of Mahalalel.
In that way, the parts of the body will not take sides. All of them will take care of one another.
And he did the same with the fish.
Do not ignore even one of the least important commands. And do not teach others to ignore them. If you do, you will be called the least important person in the kingdom of heaven. Instead, practice and teach these commands. Then you will be called important in the kingdom of heaven.
And that is what you believed
In those days Peter stood up among the believers. About  of them were there.
Or dont you know that the Lords people will judge the world Since this is true arent you able to judge small cases
“Yes, he does,” he replied.
He wanted to find men and women who belonged to the Way of Jesus The letters would allow him to take them as prisoners to Jerusalem
God has paid her back for killing those who served him.
And be sure that you read the letter from Laodicea
The rest of their body is clean
Remember Jesus Christ He came from Davids family line
He has judged the great prostitute.
These things are examples. The two women stand for two covenants. One covenant comes from Mount Sinai. It gives birth to children who are going to be slaves. It is Hagar.
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin
Then it is veiled to those who are dying.
But if their plans come from God, you won’t be able to stop these men. You will only find yourselves fighting against God.”
Brothers and sisters we should always thank God for you
No one sews a patch of new cloth on old clothes Otherwise the new piece will pull away from the old That will make the tear worse
You were taught to start living a new life. It is created to be truly good and holy, just as God is.
They brought them to the judges. “These men are Jews,” her owners said. “They are making trouble in our city.
They were given the promises.
They lifted the sail at the front of the ship to the wind. Then they headed for the beach.
The temple was filled with smoke that came from the glory and power of God
I have kept the faith.
Saul got up from the ground. He opened his eyes, but he couldn’t see. So they led him by the hand into Damascus.
The sun will not beat down on them
They could not find a way to do this because of the crowd.
Jesus called out in a loud voice, “Father, into your hands I commit my life.”
I gave them the words you gave me.
Those who led the way commanded him to stop They told him to be quiet But he shouted even louder Son of David Have mercy on me
Human anger doesn’t produce the holy life God wants.
The smoke of the incense rose up from the angel’s hand. The prayers of God’s people rose up together with it. The smoke and the prayers went up in front of God.
No we announce Gods wisdom His wisdom is a mystery that has been hidden But before time began God planned that his wisdom would bring us heavenly glory
I will show him how much he must suffer for me
I will bring glory to it again
“My children, I will be with you only a little longer. You will look for me. Just as I told the Jews, so I am telling you now. You can’t come where I am going.
We don’t give up when we are beaten or put in prison. When people stir up trouble in the streets, we continue to serve God. We work hard for him. We go without sleep and food.
As I began to speak the Holy Spirit came on them He came just as he had come on us at the beginning
While Peter was still speaking, the Holy Spirit came on all who heard the message.
Stop doubting and believe.”
Remember those earlier days after you received the light You remained strong in a great battle that was full of suffering
We sent our brother Timothy to give you strength and hope in your faith.
Also man was not created for woman Woman was created for man
You have made yourselves pure by obeying the truth
We are those people He has chosen us We do not come only from the Jewish race Many of us are not Jews
Ill do it even though you know them
Live as free people But dont use your freedom to cover up evil Live as people who are Gods slaves
Do you want to become his disciples too
Jesus’ followers saw what was going to happen. So they said, “Lord, should we use our swords against them?”
Another person thinks all days are the same
Then some teachers of the law said to themselves, “This fellow is saying a very evil thing!”
She followed Paul and the rest of us around She shouted These men serve the Most High God They are telling you how to be saved
So when I come, I will point out what he is doing. He is saying evil things that aren’t true about us.
I am sure that he will carry it on until it is completed. That will be on the day Christ Jesus returns.
we are living in the last days.
Jesus and his disciples came to a house in Capernaum There he asked them What were you arguing about on the road
Not too far away, Peter followed Jesus. He went right into the courtyard of the high priest. There he sat with the guards. He warmed himself at the fire.
Preach the word
So in my mind I am a slave to Gods law But sin controls my desires
And my judging is fair I do not try to please myself
The eighth was made out of beryl.
Then some boats arrived from Tiberias. It was near the place where the people had eaten the bread after the Lord gave thanks.
And all of you know the truth
When he saw Jesus he cried out and fell at his feet
You are a woman God has blessed You have believed that the Lord would keep his promises to you
Neither will thieves or those who always want more and more Neither will those who are often drunk or tell lies or cheat People who live like that will not receive Gods kingdom
But how terrible it will be for the earth and the sea!
Man did not come from woman Woman came from man
Jesus placed his hands on them to bless them Then he went on from there
So he circumcised Timothy because of the Jews who lived in that area
Suppose love is fulfilled among us Then we can be without fear on the day God judges the world Love is fulfilled among us when in this world we are like Jesus
It is written The one who is right with God will live by faith
So they will give their power and authority to the beast.
He is poor
But you do not believe what he wrote So how are you going to believe what I say
I'm a little confused.
We do not now see everything under his control.
Go in peace.”
She said, “He told me everything I’ve ever done.” Many of the Samaritans from the town of Sychar believed in Jesus.
I do know one thing
So the sisters sent a message to Jesus. “Lord,” they told him, “the one you love is sick.”
Do not lose hope when he corrects you.
Herod saw that the death of James pleased some Jews.
Then I heard a loud voice from the temple speaking to the seven angels. “Go,” it said. “Pour out the seven bowls of God’s great anger on the earth.”
At that time Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee. John baptized Jesus in the Jordan River.
Judas said, “Why wasn’t this perfume sold? Why wasn’t the money given to poor people? It was worth a year’s pay.”
And you still arent ready for it
Jesus Eats at a Pharisee’s House
The great day of their anger has come.
This made the Jews ask Will he kill himself
Then he touched their eyes. He said, “It will happen to you just as you believed.”
I was moving ahead in my Jewish way of life I went beyond many of my people who were my own age
But the tax collector stood farther away than the Pharisee He would not even look up to heaven He brought his hand to his heart and prayed He said God have mercy on me I am a sinner
No one measures up to God’s glory.
Barnabas was a good man He was full of the Holy Spirit and of faith
As the crowds grew larger, Jesus spoke to them.
They took off his clothes and put a purple robe on him.
But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness
But they have only been circumcised in their bodies by human hands
He will not speak on his own
Brothers and sisters we want you to know about the hard times we had in Asia Minor We were having a lot of trouble It was far more than we could stand We even thought we were going to die
But Diotrephes will not welcome us. He loves to be the first in everything.
Does that mean that Christ causes us to sin? Certainly not!
Timothy guard what God has trusted you with
You have the words of eternal life
I was hungry And you gave me something to eat I was thirsty And you gave me something to drink I was a stranger And you invited me in
It was time for him to go to the Father.
Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Holy Spirit
than the woman who has a husband.”
They came down the mountain. On the way down, Jesus told them what to do. “Don’t tell anyone what you have seen,” he said. “Wait until the Son of Man has been raised from the dead.”
“I don’t judge a person who hears my words but does not obey them. I didn’t come to judge the world. I came to save the world.
So they arrested them and put them in the public jail
God has formed us for that very purpose. He has given us the Holy Spirit as a down payment. The Spirit makes us sure of what is still to come.
The parts that we think are less important we treat with special honor. The private parts aren’t shown. But they are treated with special care.
The Sabbath day ended. Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices. They were going to use them for Jesus’ body.
People will not teach their neighbor anymore.
Their hearts will be filled with love for you when they pray for you. God has given you grace that is better than anything.
You will shine as you hold on tight to the word of life.
And only a few people went into the ark
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down. It is thrown into the fire.
He would not allow anyone to carry items for sale through the temple courtyard
Jesus healed many of them. They had all kinds of sicknesses. He also drove out many demons. But he would not let the demons speak, because they knew who he was.
Abraham did not become weak in his faith. He accepted the fact that he was past the time when he could have children. At that time Abraham was about one hundred years old. He also realized that Sarah was too old to have children.
Circumcision and uncircumcision arent worth anything to those who believe in Christ Jesus
‘I am the God of your fathers. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.’
impure acts.
So the twelve disciples left. They went from village to village. They announced the good news and healed people everywhere.
They honored the word of the Lord.
Everyone was amazed at what God was doing They were amazed when the apostles performed many wonders and signs
So he stood up and said to them, “Has any one of you not sinned? Then you are the first to throw a stone at her.”
But we don’t even know where this fellow comes from.”
Then why was the law given at all? It was added because of human sin. And it was supposed to control us until the promised Seed had come. The law was given through angels, and a go-between was put in charge of it.
The women were shaking and confused. They went out and ran away from the tomb. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid.
From there they sailed to Cyprus
So we dont spend all our time looking at what we can see Instead we look at what we cant see
Some of those standing there heard Jesus cry out They said Hes calling for Elijah
See what amazing love the Father has given us Because of it we are called children of God And thats what we really are The world doesnt know us because it didnt know him
Be humble in front of the Lord. And he will lift you up.
You want something, but you don’t have it. So you kill. You want what others have, but you can’t get what you want. So you argue and fight. You don’t have what you want, because you don’t ask God.
Then they agreed to take him into the boat. Right away the boat reached the shore where they were heading.
They try to keep us from speaking to the Gentiles. These Jews don’t want the Gentiles to be saved. In this way, these Jews always increase their sins to the limit. God’s anger has come on them at last.
He will oppose everything that is called God. He will oppose everything that is worshiped. He will give himself power over everything. He will set himself up in God’s temple. He will announce that he himself is God.
Did what is good cause me to die? Not at all! Sin had to be recognized for what it really is.
And the truth will set you free
She was gleaming with gold jewels and pearls
Jesus touched her hand and the fever left her She got up and began to serve him
They were afraid we would crash against the rocks So they dropped four anchors from the back of the ship
But a Pharisee named Gamaliel stood up in the Sanhedrin. He was a teacher of the law. He was honored by all the people. He ordered the apostles to be taken outside for a little while.
Some were put in prison
I have spoken to you about earthly things, and you do not believe.
I am a virgin
Large numbers of people came to know the Lord.
They were terrified They asked each other Who is this Even the wind and the waves obey him
In Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate is a pool In the Aramaic language it is called Bethesda
These works are a witness that the Father has sent me.
dear friends
From Jerusalem all the way around to Illyricum I have finished preaching In those places I preached the good news about Christ
They all stayed there for a few days.
He was born under the authority of the law
I planned to visit you on my way to Macedonia I would have come back to you from there Then you would have sent me on my way to Judea
Soon a woman heard about him. An evil spirit controlled her little daughter. The woman came to Jesus and fell at his feet.
So you have an honest and true love for each other.
You call on a Father who judges each persons work without favoring one over another So live as outsiders during your time here Live with the highest respect for God
The crowd realized that Jesus and his disciples were not there. So they got into boats and went to Capernaum to look for Jesus.
Learn a lesson from the fig tree As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out you know that summer is near
Take care
I am short.
You can be sure that people like this are twisted and sinful Their own actions judge them
"Because the salt of peace and friendship, a reminder of good ambition, a good inauguration watchdog is a time to find a new idea," he said።
Earlier Isaiah had said
It was because of his own purpose and grace Through Christ Jesus God gave us this grace even before time began
You who want to be under the authority of the law, tell me something. Don’t you know what the law says?
You run.
Trust in your leaders Put yourselves under their authority
So Joseph got up. He took the child and his mother Mary back to the land of Israel.
We always thank God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ when we pray for you
Who is trying to kill you
People who live like this will not receive God’s kingdom.
So we are Christs official messengers It is as if God were making his appeal through us Here is what Christ wants us to beg you to do Come back to God
And they are very sure about that law. But they don’t know what they are talking about.
He said, “Come. I will show you how the great prostitute will be punished. She is the one who sits by many waters.
So Festus talked with the king about Pauls case
God had warned him about things that could not yet be seen. Because of his faith Noah showed the world that it was guilty.
Jesus went on to tell the people a story A man planted a vineyard he said He rented it out to some farmers Then he went away for a long time
You make the word of God useless by putting your own teachings in its place And you do many things like this
Certainly not about the Lord’s Supper!
On the Sabbath day they entered the synagogue and sat down.
So was the table with its holy bread.
God is the God who gives peace May he make you holy through and through May your whole spirit soul and body be kept free from blame May you be without blame from now until our Lord Jesus Christ comes
Suppose you keep the whole law but trip over just one part of it. Then you are guilty of breaking all of it.
Do not commit adultery Do not commit murder Do not steal
Yes I am Paul answered
You can be sure that people like this are twisted and sinful.
Some Pharisees were trying to find fault with Jesus They watched him closely They wanted to see if he would heal the man on the Sabbath day
The appeal we make is based on truth It comes from a pure heart We are not trying to trick you
I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes.
Some of the people there became angry. They said to one another, “Why waste this perfume?
The Lamb opened the seventh seal Then there was silence in heaven for about half an hour
They must not try to get money by cheating people.
We know that the man who healed you is a sinner
It was a cave with a stone in front of the entrance.
Most of all here is what you must understand
We know that we are children of God. We know that the whole world is under the control of the evil one.
And the child grew and became strong.
There is no difference between those who are Jews and those who are not.
Love your neighbor as you love yourself
They were standing around the elders and the four living creatures.
and stop telling lies
That will keep you out of trouble
Dont do anything foolish
They stand for all the nations of the world no matter what their race or language is
His mother said to the servants Do what he tells you
It is written,
At three o’clock in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” This means “My God, my God, why have you deserted me?”
Jesus said to her, “You are right when you say you have no husband.
But someone will say
They brag about what they should be ashamed of
Christ Jesus set us free so that the blessing given to Abraham would come to the Gentiles through Christ. He did it so that we might receive the promise of the Holy Spirit.
But we didn’t use that right. No, we have put up with everything. We didn’t want to keep the good news of Christ from spreading.
I am the least important of the apostles Im not even fit to be called an apostle
“I was in the city of Joppa praying,” he said. “There I had a vision. I saw something that looked like a large sheet.
Then we are lying.
And he knows everything
Their bodies were scattered in the desert
Then I will raise them up on the last day.
Others should decide if what is being said is true
When you come together like this hand this man over to Satan Then the power of sin in his life will be destroyed His spirit will be saved on the day the Lord returns
The way they live must show that they have turned away from their sins
Because Israel sinned, the Gentiles can be saved.
Jesus looked around. He said to his disciples, “How hard it is for rich people to enter God’s kingdom!”
Again and again I almost died
They did not stop worshiping demons They kept worshiping statues of gods made out of gold silver bronze stone and wood These statues cant see or hear or walk
This grace will be brought to you when Jesus Christ returns.
If they had, they would not have nailed the Lord of glory to the cross.
Onesimus was separated from you for a little while. Maybe that was so you could have him back forever.
Here is the main point of what we are saying. We have a high priest like that. He sat down at the right hand of the throne of the King, the Majesty in heaven.
As you eat, some of you go ahead and eat your own private meals.
When the crowd saw this they were filled with wonder They praised God for giving that kind of authority to a human being
I try to please the one who sent me.
She lay down to commit her sin so I will make her lie down in suffering
Some of the people went ahead of him and some followed They all shouted
Do what you have learned or received or heard from me Follow myexample
The desires controlled by sin do not want what the Spirit delights in.
Here is what we take pride in. Our sense of what is right and wrong tells us how we have acted.
We worked when we were with you.
We serve God in times of glory and shame. We serve him whether the news about us is bad or good. We are true to our calling. But people treat us as if we were pretenders.
But when they walk at night, they’ll trip and fall. They have no light.”
Mahalalel was the son of Kenan
Test the spirits to see if they belong to God
The second death has no power over them.
Everyone was amazed and gave praise to God They were filled with wonder They said We have seen unusual things today
It was because of his mercy He saved us by washing away our sins We were born again The Holy Spirit gave us new life
They had come from every village of Galilee and from Judea and Jerusalem
So I was afraid. I went out and hid your gold in the ground. See, here is what belongs to you.’
Stand up to him Remain strong in what you believe You know that you are not alone in your suffering
It is also the city where their Lord was nailed to a cross The city is sometimes compared to Sodom or Egypt
“They ask for a sign from God. But none will be given except the sign of Jonah.
Events on Cyprus
A man who had a skin disease came and got down on his knees in front of Jesus. He said, “Lord, if you are willing to make me ‘clean,’ you can do it.”
The Jewish Passover Feast was near.
I threw away my shoes.
Then he threw him into the Abyss. He locked it and sealed him in. This was to keep Satan from causing the nations to believe his lies anymore. Satan will be locked away until the onne thousend years are ended. After that, he must be set free for a short time.
Those children have bodies made out of flesh and blood. So Jesus became human like them in order to die for them.
now we are children of God
“We have the right to claim to be God’s children,” they objected.
Then Jesus healed him and gave him back to his father
A third of the living creatures in the sea died. A third of the ships were destroyed.
Always give thanks to God the Father for everything Give thanks to him in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ
He was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper.
They had Peter and John brought to them They wanted to question them
They will whip him and kill him On the third day he will rise from the dead
“Sir,” the woman said, “you don’t have anything to get water with. The well is deep. Where can you get this living water?
So the angel swung his blade over the earth
The commander replied, “Lord, I am not good enough to have you come into my house. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed.
Paul wanted to take him along on the journey.
I am not well at all.
Now may a way be opened up for us to come to you
He gave them a terrible beating
Other seed fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and crowded out the plants.
Jesus spoke first to his disciples
He has the power to bring everything under his control. By his power he will change our earthly bodies. They will become like his glorious body.
Everyone who heard this wondered about it.
I hope you will help me on my journey there But first I want to enjoy being with you for a while
Jesus said to them, “Why are you troubled? Why do you have doubts in your minds?
When the voice had spoken, they found that Jesus was alone.
Right away her bleeding stopped
The next day Moses saw two Israelites fighting.
Some people still follow the basic spiritual powers of the world. But you died with Christ as far as these powers are concerned.
Then his disciples asked each other, “Did someone bring him food?”
So then what greater riches will come when all Israel turns to God
When opposing groups try to snatch it, they hold the stone and the friends support it።
So faith comes from hearing the message.
So go ahead and finish the sins that those who lived before you started!
In the same way I want to see results among you
Then we will not drift away from it
Someone told him Your mother and brothers are standing outside They want to speak to you
Judas who was going to hand Jesus over was standing there with them
Arent they speaking evil things against the worthy name of Jesus Remember you belong to him
Suppose people lead one of these little ones to sin. It would be better for those people to be thrown into the sea with a millstone tied around their neck.
announces the Lord.
I quickly ate lunch.
should I come in love and with a gentle spirit
When it was almost evening, the disciples came to him. “There is nothing here,” they said. “It’s already getting late. Send the crowds away. They can go and buy some food in the villages.”
A man named Simon lived in the city For quite a while he had practiced evil magic there He amazed all the people of Samaria
Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven But anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven A person like that wont be forgiven either now or in days to come
The plagues would complete God’s anger.
Here is what I tell you. You are Peter. On this rock I will build my church. The gates of hell will not be strong enough to destroy it.
Some people enjoy pretending they aren’t proud. They worship angels. But don’t let people like that judge you. These people tell you every little thing about what they have seen.
There are different ways the Spirit works But the same God is working in all these ways and in all people
So they carried her out and buried her beside her husband
The wheat began to grow and form grain. At the same time, weeds appeared.
Otherwise, the new wine will burst the skins.
I’m writing these things to warn you. I am warning you about people trying to lead you astray.
I want to say something about our brother Apollos I tried my best to get him to go to you with the others But he didnt want to go right now He will go when he can
But you dont accept it You dont think you are good enough for eternal life So now we are turning to the Gentiles
Is that your own idea Jesus asked
Their thinking became worthless.
There were two hundred seventy six of us on board
Isaiah cries out concerning Israel. He says,
“You’re out of your mind,” they said to her. But she kept telling them it was true. So they said, “It must be his angel.”
Then by God’s grace I will rise from the dead.
Gods Chosen Servant
They shouldn’t wear gold or pearls.
Do those who depend on the law receive the promise? If they do, faith would mean nothing.
Get rid of the old yeast Then you can be like a new batch of dough without yeast That is what you really are Thats because Christ our Passover Lamb has been offered up for us
The disciples were even more amazed. They said to each other, “Then who can be saved?”
Paul and his companions traveled from town to town They reported what the apostles and elders in Jerusalem had decided The people were supposed to obey what was in the report
Who was God angry with for fourty years
When I saw her, I was very amazed.
We believe in the God who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. So God will accept our faith and make us right with himself.
When the spirit takes hold of him, it throws him to the ground. He foams at the mouth. He grinds his teeth. And his body becomes stiff. I asked your disciples to drive out the spirit. But they couldn’t do it.”
What do we care they replied Thats your problem
But for one hour they will receive authority to rule together with the beast.
Those who belong to Christ Jesus are no longer under God’s judgment.
Some people are worried about how things look on the outside. They are trying to force you to be circumcised. They do it for only one reason. They don’t want to suffer by being connected with the cross of Christ.
Christ did not send me to baptize He sent me to preach the good news He commanded me not to preach with wisdom and fancy words That would take all the power away from the cross of Christ
Long ago these spirits did not obey. That was when God was patient while Noah was building the ark. And only a few people went into the ark. In fact, there were only eight. Those eight people were saved through water.
A Roman Commander Has Faith
Anyone who believes in him is not judged. But anyone who does not believe is judged already. They have not believed in the name of God’s one and only Son.
Every year Jesus parents went to Jerusalem for the Passover Feast
The evil one cant harm them
I preached Gods good news to you free of charge When I did that I was putting myself down in order to lift you up Was this a sin
And again it says
Then come down from the cross Save yourself
Thats why I have often been kept from coming to you
To be a child of God has nothing to do with human parents
Then Paul left the synagogue and went to the house next door
In fact, he has prepared a city for them.
One Sabbath day Jesus was walking with his disciples through the grainfields. The disciples began to break off some heads of grain.
In fact that is how you are living
Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes And suppose a poor man in dirty old clothes also comes in
They will carry you out also
But the renters saw the son coming They said to one another This is the one who will receive all the owners property someday Come lets kill him Then everything will be ours
We have already given written directions to the believers who are not Jews They must not eat food that has been offered to statues of gods
They have told the church about your love Please help them by sending them on their way in a manner that honors God
It judges the thoughts and purposes of the heart.
The man sent a third slave The renters wounded him and threw him out
While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
sent his Son to give his life to pay for our sins.
Then Jesus called in a loud voice He said Lazarus come out
The third is coming soon.
God will judge those outside.
So they went to buy the oil But while they were on their way the groom arrived The bridesmaids who were ready went in with him to the wedding dinner Then the door was shut
Then I saw a second beast This one came out of the earth It had two horns like a lamb But it spoke like a dragon
But because Christ died God has brought you back to himself Christs death has made you holy in Gods sight So now you dont have any flaw You are free from blame
Jesus placed his hands on a few sick people and healed them But he could not do any other miracles there
We want to honor the Lord himself We want to show how ready we are to help
They also said many other things to make fun of him.
He also saw a poor widow put in two very small copper coins
One day Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee There he saw two brothers Simon Peter and his brother Andrew They were throwing a net into the lake because they were fishermen
We would live or die with you
So let us boldly approach God’s throne of grace. Then we will receive mercy. We will find grace to help us when we need it.
Then the women remembered Jesus’ words.
Can we say that God is not fair when he brings his anger down on us?
Neither will thieves or those who always want more and more. Neither will those who are often drunk or tell lies or cheat. People who live like that will not receive God’s kingdom.
We will share what Christ receives
We belong to the Lord Jesus Christ.
So I really want to preach the good news also to you who live in Rome.
What does that matter to you
In the last days some people will make fun of the truth They will follow their own ungodly desires
No one asked, “Why are you talking with her?”
Mary would later pour perfume on the Lord. She would also wipe Jesus’ feet with her hair. It was her brother Lazarus who was sick in bed.
I left you on the island of Crete. I did this because there were some things that hadn’t been finished.
And now do they want to get rid of us quietly
The believers asked the Lord to give his grace to Paul and Silas as they went.
God is light.
Up to this very hour we are hungry
Whether they are faithful or not is their own masters concern
work with your hands just as we told you to
It will be pressed down shaken together and running over
“Is that your own idea?” Jesus asked.
I will show signs on the earth below
Jesus answered, “I was sent only to the people of Israel. They are like lost sheep.”
I have spoken to you about earthly things and you do not believe
Encourage people and give them hope.
Jesus looked up to heaven. With a deep sigh, he said to the man, “Ephphatha!” That means “Be opened!”
Show me your faith that doesnt cause you to do good deeds
He told us how he had seen an angel appear in his house. The angel said, ‘Send to Joppa for Simon Peter.
When he lies he speaks his natural language He does this because he is a liar He is the father of lies
Jesus was handed over to die for our sins He was raised to life in order to make us right with God
The Letter to the Church in Sardis
I will not remember their sins anymore
So they kept the matter to themselves. But they asked each other what “rising from the dead” meant.
The Letter to the Church in Philadelphia
We are also sending another one of our brothers with them. He has often proved to us in many ways that he is very committed.
Israels army had faith So the walls of Jericho fell down It happened after they had marched around the city for seven days
Just as there is an earthly body, there is also a spiritual body.
If that is how God dresses the wild grass, how much better will he dress you! After all, the grass is here only today. Tomorrow it is thrown into the fire. Your faith is so small!
They won’t forgive others.
Aren’t they dragging you into court?
Out of the temple came the seven angels who were bringing the seven plagues. They were dressed in clean, shining linen. They wore gold strips of cloth around their chests.
Above all here is what you must understand
I am absolutely sure that not even death or life can separate us from Gods love Not even angels or demons the present or the future or any powers can separate us
If you do not find others guilty, then you will not be found guilty.
When the day of Pentecost came, all the believers gathered in one place.
Reu was the son of Peleg
All his followers were scattered.
I have not yet received all these things. I have not yet reached my goal.
He will not argue or cry out.
Brothers and sisters we dont have to write to you about times and dates
“I am the God who is, and who was,who will come.
He followed Philip everywhere.
You may have had to suffer sadness in all kinds of trouble
Many people will follow their lead These people will do the same evil things the false teachers do They will cause people to think badly about the way of truth
You are waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you eternal life
How terrible for you authorities on the law
We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him.
So don’t worry about tomorrow. Tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.
you who can’t make up your minds.
Does faith makes the law useless?
Jesse was the son of Obed.
Paul stood up and motioned with his hand Then he said Fellow Israelites and you Gentiles who worship God listen to me
“May there be peace and glory in the highest heaven!”
Another says I follow Apollos
So I will be very happy to spend everything I have for you
A single man is concerned about the Lord’s matters. He wants to know how he can please the Lord.
You spoke against the Holy and Blameless One. You asked for a murderer to be set free instead.
Who serves as a soldier but doesn’t get paid? Who plants a vineyard but doesn’t eat any of its grapes? Who takes care of a flock but doesn’t drink any of the milk?
They said If you are the king of the Jews save yourself
But the Jews objected so I had to make an appeal to Caesar I certainly did not mean to bring any charge against my own people
The person who builds a house has greater honor than the house itself
Then they went away leaving him almost dead
His speech won the leaders over.
He will lead them to springs of living water
The man was healed right away.
The seven heads are seven hills that the woman sits on.
But the person who prophesies speaks to people. That person prophesies to make people stronger, to give them hope, and to comfort them.
This happened so that what Jesus said about how he was going to die would come true
Ananias and Sapphira
But others preach about Christ to help me in my work.
You are from this world
“ ‘But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,are certainly not the least important among the towns of Judah.A ruler will come out of you.
Then we can worship God in a way that pleases him. Let us worship him with deep respect and wonder.
Peter said many other things to warn them He begged them Save yourselves from these evil people
They asked only one thing They wanted us to continue to remember poor people That was what I had wanted to do all along
And the Spirit doesnt make us weak and fearful
Now we can see that you know everything You dont even need anyone to ask you questions
The only thing they have coming to them is death. Their stomach is their god. They brag about what they should be ashamed of. They think only about earthly things.
About three thousand  people joined the believers that day.
I found out that the charge against him was based on questions about their law. But there was no charge against him worthy of death or prison.
No we have put up with everything We didnt want to keep the good news of Christ from spreading
My soul is very sad I feel close to death he said to them Stay here Keep watch
No one can see him.
Finally, my brothers and sisters, always think about what is true.
The second terrible judgment has passed The third is coming soon
And they should continue to do good.
Everyone sinned so death came to all people
It is right as long as I live in this tent. I’m talking about my body.
The promise comes by faith
They were wearing white robes. In their hands they were holding palm branches.
He spoke very loudly.
In fact, when we were with you, here is what we kept telling you. We were telling you that our enemies would make us suffer. As you know very well, it has turned out that way.
He will show you a large upstairs room. It will have furniture and will be ready. Prepare for us to eat there.”
But put God’s kingdom first. Then those other things will also be given to you.
Brothers and sisters think about the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord They are an example of how to be patient when you suffer
I am not commanding you to do it
The man’s face fell. He went away sad, because he was very rich.
Two other men were crucified with him.
Again I ask, “Didn’t Israel understand?” First, Moses says,
The second beast was allowed to give breath to this statue so it could speak.
Long ago God planned that Jesus would be handed over to you With the help of evil people
Do you owe honor Then show it
Arent you acting like ordinary human beings
Don’t spend time thinking about what you will eat or drink. Don’t worry about it.
He who was sitting on the throne said, “I am making everything new!”
It didnt matter whether we were Jews or Gentiles slaves or free people
Hymenaeus and Alexander are among them I have handed them over to Satan That will teach them not to speak evil things against God
He said,
And I also think that I am led by the Spirit of God in saying this.
After Paul and Silas came out of the prison they went to Lydias house
And I will show you my faith by the goods deeds I do.
That’s how everything was arranged in the holy tent. The priests entered it at regular times. They went into the outer room to do their work for God and others.
If it does, it will cause trouble. And it will make many people impure.
But Timothy has come to us from you just now. He has brought good news about your faith and love.
I give them eternal life, and they will never die.
You will shine as you hold on tight to the word of life. Then I will be able to boast about you on the day Christ returns. I can be happy that I didn’t run or work for nothing.
John had been saying to Herod, “It is against the Law for you to be married to your brother’s wife.”
Here is a saying you can trust If anyone wants to be a leader in the church they want to do a good work for God and people
And was it really for nothing
Suppose someone comes to you and preaches about a Jesus different from the Jesus we preached about
Why is this fellow talking like that Hes saying a very evil thing Only God can forgive sins
If Satan fights against himself, how can his kingdom stand? I say this because of what you claim.
At just the right time Christ died for ungodly people He died for us when we had no power of our own
Then the believers prayed. They said, “Lord, you know everyone’s heart. Show us which of these two you have chosen.
they told him, “the one you love is sick.”
When Moses saw the bush, he was amazed. He went over for a closer look. There he heard the Lord say,
But the man who had received one bag went and dug a hole in the ground He hid his masters money in it
He announced the good news ahead of time to Abraham
knows God.
Suppose someone comes to you and doesnt teach these truths Then dont take them into your house or welcome them
My brothers and sisters when Christ died you also died as far as the law is concerned
Greet Andronicus and Junia my fellow Jews They have been in prison with me They are leaders among the apostles They became believers in Christ before I did
Barnabas wanted to take John Mark with them
In a race all the runners run But only one gets the prize You know that dont you So run in a way that will get you the prize
I can do nothing by myself. I judge only as I hear.
Stay there and eat and drink anything they give you
The only thing that really counts is faith that shows itself through love
You have taken with you the shrine of your false god Molek.
If he dies, she is free to marry anyone she wants to.
“Yes, we are God’s children. So we shouldn’t think that God is made out of gold or silver or stone. He isn’t a statue planned and made by clever people.
So he called one of the servants. He asked him what was going on.
The Lord makes me certain that you will see the truth of this. The one who has gotten you all mixed up will have to pay the price. This will happen no matter who has done it.
follow the lead of your own husbands
There was a Pharisee named Nicodemus He was one of the Jewish rulers
“Lord,” Ananias answered, “I’ve heard many reports about this man. They say he has done great harm to your holy people in Jerusalem.
He has sent me to announce freedom for prisoners
When I came to you, I was weak and very afraid and trembling all over.
Let us put up three shelters.
Forgive one another if you are holding something against someone.
should we destroy it?”
They had heard that he was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John.
Get up! Roll up your mat!”
And the dragon and his angels fought back
We pray that he will do this by his power
“But you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching.
Paul looked straight at the Sanhedrin. “My brothers,” he said, “I have always done my duty to God. To this day I feel that I have done nothing wrong.”
He went to the high priest
Dont have anything to do with that person Then they will feel ashamed
With unfamiliar languages
Once Jesus and those who were with him were walking along the road.
No one pours new wine into old wineskins.
Mark Aristarchus Demas and Luke work together with me They also send you greetings
But rich people should take pride in their low positions Thats because they will fade away like wild flowers
Susanna and many others were there also.
Brothers and sisters, we want to ask you something. It has to do with the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. It concerns the time when we will go to be with him.
So were some women who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses.
Before anything was created he was already there He holds everything together
those who wander in this world.
But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth could open the scroll. No one could even look inside it.
My brothers and sisters, I am sure that you are full of goodness. You are filled with knowledge and able to teach one another.
He was given a crown
Abraham was looking forward to the city that has foundations. He was waiting for the city that God planned and built.
A family that is divided against itself will fall.
You dont know what youre asking for Jesus said Can you drink the cup of suffering I drink Or can you go through the baptism of suffering I must go through
People who don’t believe might say you are doing wrong. But lead good lives among them. Then they will see your good deeds. And they will give glory to God on the day he comes to judge.
It has been said Suppose a man divorces his wife If he does he must give her a letter of divorce
Some are for special purposes. Others are for ordinary use.
It was very early in the morning. The chief priests, with the elders, the teachers of the law, and the whole Sanhedrin, made their plans. So they tied Jesus up and led him away. Then they handed him over to Pilate.
He will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born.
The following day he arrived in Caesarea. Cornelius was expecting them. He had called together his relatives and close friends.
Many will come in my name. They will claim, ‘I am the Messiah!’ They will fool many people.
And do not say Who will go down into the grave
This baptism has nothing to do with removing dirt from your body.
All of this has come to us because we know the God who chose us He chose us because of his own glory and goodness
But everything should be done in a proper and orderly way
Suppose no one raises from the dead Then what will people do who are baptized for the dead Suppose the dead are not raised at all Then why are people baptized for them
He will enter a house. Say to its owner, ‘The Teacher asks, “Where is my guest room? Where can I eat the Passover meal with my disciples?” ’
But God raised him from the dead. He set him free from the suffering of death. It wasn’t possible for death to keep its hold on Jesus.
You are not even fifty years old they said to Jesus
When evening came many people controlled by demons were brought to Jesus He drove out the spirits with a word He healed all who were sick
So after he heard Lazarus was sick, he stayed where he was for two more days.
You  clean the outside of the  dish.
The agreement includes wide scopes of cooperation in social, economic, political and military fields.
Do not judge other people Then you will not be judged
If he arrives soon I will come with him to see you
Brothers and sisters we want you to know what happens to those who die We dont want you to mourn as other people do They mourn because they dont have any hope
You think you know so much more than the people you teach
God made it known by sending his angel to his servant John
I saw “a new heaven and a new earth.”  The first heaven and the first earth were completely gone. There was no longer any sea.
They were carrying torches lanterns and weapons
Some people actually lie by reporting that this is what we say
Was there ever a prophet your people didn’t try to hurt? They even killed those who told about the coming of the Blameless One. And now you have handed him over to his enemies. You have murdered him.
One was on his right and one was on his left
“You are not even fifty years old,” they said to Jesus. “And you have seen Abraham?”
Then Jesus said to the tree May no one ever eat fruit from you again And his disciples heard him say it
“The time for me to show who I really am isn’t here yet.”
Here is what he has given you to do for Christ You must not only believe in him You must also suffer for him
“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net. It was let down into the lake. It caught all kinds of fish.
If the building doesnt burn up God will give the builder a reward for the work
All who are forced to serve as slaves should consider their masters worthy of full respect
He tried to make peace between them. ‘Men, you are both Israelites,’ he said. ‘Why do you want to hurt each other?’
Anyone who does what God wants is my brother or sister or mother
Instead, he receives it when he is appointed by God. That is just how it was for Aaron.
If you hear it dont be stubborn
Scripture says When you are angry do not sin  Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry
You have not given up
We put a small piece of metal in the mouth of a horse to make it obey us
Here is how we know that we love Gods children We know it when we love God and obey his commands
Then Isaiah boldly speaks about what God says God said
Jesus also said, “Here is what God’s kingdom is like. A farmer scatters seed on the ground.
Then Jesus said to them Give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar And give back to God what belongs to God
Anyone who takes the humble position of this child is the most important in the kingdom of heaven.
as the glory and wealth she gave herself.
Then he said to the disciples, “What I’m about to tell you is true. You will see heaven open. You will see the angels of God going up and coming down on the Son of Man.”
We dont give up Our bodies are becoming weaker and weaker
Some of Jesus’ disciples were talking about the temple. They spoke about how it was decorated with beautiful stones and with gifts that honored God. But Jesus asked,
But Paul made an appeal to have the Emperor decide his case. So I ordered him to be held until I could send him to Caesar.”
Then Jesus said to the man Stretch out your hand So he stretched it out It had been made as good as new It was just as good as the other hand
That is what Scripture means where it says,
we can put up with anything that happens to us.
Jesus told them still another story.
“We have no king but Caesar,” the chief priests answered.
Then each of them was given a white robe Wait a little longer they were told There are still more of your believing brothers and sisters who will be killed They will be killed just as you were
Do you want to be like her? Then do what is right.
Then they handed Paul over to him
Have fun
My brother you have renewed the hearts of the Lords people
we are living in the last days
Believe me when I say I am in the Father.
But they have no roots. They believe for a while. But when they are tested, they fall away from the faith.
If it bears fruit next year fine If not then cut it down
The people of the city did not agree with one another Some were on the side of the Jews Others were on the side of the apostles
The evil one can’t harm them.
There they helped the believers gain strength. They told them to remain faithful to what they had been taught. “We must go through many hard times to enter God’s kingdom,” they said.
can a fig tree produce olives?
“So how can you say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’?
But we love each other And I would rather appeal to you on the basis of that love I Paul am an old man I am now also a prisoner because of Christ Jesus
Brothers and sisters let me give you an example from everyday life
When others say bad things about us, we answer with kind words. We have become the world’s garbage. We are everybody’s trash, right up to this moment.
So Judas came to the garden He was guiding a group of soldiers and some officials The chief priests and the Pharisees had sent them
God’s grace has saved you because of your faith in Christ. Your salvation doesn’t come from anything you do. It is God’s gift.
What is our hope What is our joy When our Lord Jesus returns what is the crown we will delight in
They promise to give freedom to these new believers
It was as wide and high as it was long
On their second visit, Joseph told his brothers who he was. Pharaoh learned about Joseph’s family.
While Jesus was saying this, a synagogue leader came. He got down on his knees in front of Jesus. He said, “My daughter has just died. But come and place your hand on her. Then she will live again.”
Then Jesus gave him back to his mother.
We moved along slowly for many days.
He was given a large sword
Do not commit adultery He also said Do not commit murder
Jesus answered, “I told you I am he. If you are looking for me, then let these men go.”
Peter Heals Aeneas and Dorcas
He has also given us his very great and valuable promises
A great sign appeared in heaven. It was a woman wearing the sun like clothes. The moon was under her feet. On her head she wore a crown of  stars.
The tent remained in the land until David’s time.
It was when Abiathar was high priest. David entered the house of God and ate the holy bread. Only priests were allowed to eat it. David also gave some to his men.”
Most of all here is what you must understand In the last days people will make fun of the truth They will laugh at it They will follow their own evil desires
Judas son of James and Judas Iscariot who would later hand Jesus over to his enemies
You know how I live and what I live for
So I beg you to be patient as you listen to me.
Their worship doesn’t mean anything to me.
The star opened the Abyss. Then smoke rose up from it like the smoke from a huge furnace. The sun and sky were darkened by the smoke from the Abyss.
There Julius was kind to Paul. He let Paul visit his friends so they could give him what he needed.
Some time later Jesus went to a town called Nain
So I take pride in the work I do for God and others
From one man he made all the people of the world. Now they live all over the earth. He decided exactly when they should live. And he decided exactly where they should live.
Jonam was the son of Eliakim
So Paul and Barnabas were appointed to go up to Jerusalem Some other believers were chosen to go with them They were told to ask the apostles and elders about this question
Jesus said, “Here is a saying you will certainly apply to me. ‘Doctor, heal yourself!’
Then we will not be naked
I feel deep concern for these people They have already been with me three days They dont have anything to eat
That is what the Lord says.
Send someone to Joppa to get Simon Peter.
“Another said, ‘I have just bought five pairs of oxen. I’m on my way to try them out. Please excuse me.’
Matthew,Thomas,James, son of Alphaeus,Simon who was called the Zealot
Then Peter said Master the people are crowding and pushing against you
We all share the one loaf.
I disagree with you.
Finally, I want all of you to agree with one another.
Let everyone know how gentle you are The Lord is coming soon
But God has shown me that I should not say anyone is not pure and ‘clean.’
Here is what God said to him. ‘For  years your family after you will be strangers in a country not their own. They will be slaves and will be treated badly.
At the same time they untied the ropes that held the rudders
The game is religious in content።
But Martha was busy with all the things that had to be done
Where did John’s baptism come from? Was it from heaven? Or did it come from human authority?”
Then Peter stood up with the eleven apostles.
Then people could become right with God by obeying the law
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me. He said, “Come. I will show you how the great prostitute will be punished. She is the one who sits by many waters.
I was quite satisfied.
Then here is what I want you to remember. Anyone who keeps a sinner from going astray will save them from death.
There in front of them his appearance was changed. His face shone like the sun. His clothes became as white as the light.
they dont know him because their hearts are stubborn
A leader must be free from blame
He is with you.”
He will teach people who dont obey to be wise and do what is right
Is it right to pay the royal tax to Caesar or not?
This kind of bragging is evil
Right away the boat reached the shore where they were heading.
God wants you to thank him because you believe in Christ Jesus
The next day he and Barnabas left for Derbe.
But many who heard the message believed.
He must not get drunk
Christ didn’t have any sin. But God made him become sin for us. So we can be made right with God because of what Christ has done for us.
The king said to the girl, “Ask me for anything you want. I’ll give it to you.”
I tell you it is the ame in heaven There is joy in heaven over one sinner who turns away from sin
Suppose anyone has left houses, brothers or sisters, father or mother, husband or wife, children or fields because of me. Anyone who has done that will receive one hundred times as much. They will also receive eternal life.
But there are those God has chosen both Jews and Greeks To them Christ is Gods power and Gods wisdom
Then they all went home
A large number of Greeks who worshiped God joined them too So did quite a few important women
Dear lady Im not writing you a new command
They had tails that could sting people like scorpions do And in their tails they had power to hurt people over and over for five months
There is no Jew or Gentile There is no slave or free person There is no male or female Thats because you are all one in Christ Jesus
You used to be slaves of sin.
But when her baby is born she forgets the pain
So he was added to the eleven apostles.
“You have spoken well, teacher,” the man replied. “You are right in saying that God is one. There is no other God but him.
The person who eats everything must not look down on the one who does not. And the one who doesn’t eat everything must not judge the person who does. That’s because God has accepted them.
The hearts of these people have become stubborn
I want to make you strong by giving you a gift from the Holy Spirit
So the Pharisees said to one another This isnt getting us anywhere Look how the whole world is following him
If it did it would no longer depend on the promise
Don't cry.
But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to set Israel free. Also, it is the third day since all this happened.
You are the salt of the earth But suppose the salt loses its saltiness How can it be made salty again It is no longer good for anything It will be thrown out People will walk all over it
He said to the disciple Here is your mother
The beast opened its mouth to speak evil things against God.
Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared.
But he said to them I have food to eat that you know nothing about
They ran through that whole area to bring to him those who were sick. They carried them on mats to where they heard he was.
The church in Jerusalem heard about this
People do not pick figs from thorns.
We do it to warn you. But here is what you can be sure of. God’s kingdom has come near.’
Late in the afternoon the twelve disciples came to him. They said, “Send the crowd away. They can go to the nearby villages and countryside. There they can find food and a place to stay. There is nothing here.”
“Come and follow me,” Jesus said. “I will send you out to fish for people.”
Don’t lie to one another. You have gotten rid of your old way of life and its habits.
Judas was in charge of the money. So some of the disciples thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the feast. Others thought Jesus was talking about giving something to poor people.
Since the millionaire was sixtin years old in the Faremen's nigniteen tirty three, they have also failed twennty six times despite taking the university entrance exam።
But he replied what Im about to tell you is true I dont know you
The seed that fell among the thorns is like others who hear the message But then the worries of this life and the false promises of wealth crowd it out They keep the message from producing fruit
So run in a way that will get you the prize.
Get rid of all hard feelings anger and rage Stop all fighting and lying Dont have anything to do with any kind of hatred
His spirit became very sad, and he was troubled.
You will know that what God will give his holy people is rich and glorious
Walk while you have the light. Do this before darkness catches up with you.
But soon she will be robbed of her greatness
The church was strengthened and grew larger
Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Anyone who believes in me will live, even if they die.
This will show them that they will be destroyed and that you will be saved. That’s what God will do.
John the Baptist was in prison. When he heard about the actions of the Messiah, he sent his disciples to him.
Didnt we walk in the same footsteps by the same Spirit
But the darkness has not overcome the light
Everyone who loves has become a child of God
Live as people who are God’s slaves.
The mystery was not made known to people of other times But now the Holy Spirit has made this mystery known to Gods holy apostles and prophets
A third angel followed them. He said in a loud voice, “There will be trouble for anyone who worships the beast and its statue! There will be trouble for anyone who has its mark on their forehead or their hand!
In the place of the dead the rich man was suffering terribly He looked up and saw Abraham far away Lazarus was by his side
Then he sailed from Ephesus
The Son of Man will say in front of Gods angels that I dont know him
During that time a crowd of many thousands had gathered There were so many people that they were stepping on one another
We have a lot to say about this But it is hard to make it clear to you Thats because you are no longer trying to understand
It is planted in weakness
He has given us the power to serve under a new covenant. The covenant is not based on the written Law of Moses. It comes from the Holy Spirit. The written Law kills, but the Spirit gives life.
To others he gives the ability to speak in different kinds of languages they had not known before.
When he died, he died once and for all time. He did this to break the power of sin.
The Pharisees and Sadducees came to test Jesus. They asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
As soon as Peter heard that he put his coat on He had taken it off earlier Then he jumped into the water
A third of the water turned bitter
You will hear about wars. You will also hear people talking about future wars. Don’t be alarmed. These things must happen. But the end still isn’t here.
“I have much more to say to you. It is more than you can handle right now.
Hearing this, Jesus said to Jairus
Their own actions judge them
Then he said to Thomas, “Put your finger here. See my hands. Reach out your hand and put it into my side. Stop doubting and believe.”
My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me.
I pray that your love will grow more and more. And let it be based on knowledge and understanding.
I want to be joined to him Being right with God does not come from my obeying the law It comes because I believe in Christ It comes from God because of faith
They said to the woman We no longer believe just because of what you said
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in.
They are rules people had to obey only until the new covenant came.
But he said to me
Jesus and his disciples arrived in Capernaum. There the people who collect the temple tax came to Peter. They asked him, “Doesn’t your teacher pay the temple tax?”
So Jesus told him, “Do quickly what you are going to do.”
A man said to Jesus I will follow you no matter where you go
We were all given the same Spirit to drink.
He got into the boat that belonged to Simon Jesus asked him to go out a little way from shore Then he sat down in the boat and taught the people
You are a wise leader.
That’s because those two prophets had made them suffer.
But I want you to keep your head no matter what happens.
The next day Paul and the rest of us went to see James. All the elders were there.
You did not put any olive oil on my head. But she has poured this perfume on my feet.
These things are excellent. They are for the good of everyone.
Dont be too quick to place your hands on others to set them apart to serve God Dont take part in the sins of others Keep yourself pure
He is now even more committed because he has great faith in you.
Forgive Those Who Make You Sad
Their words have gone out from one end of the world to the other.”
Then I can talk with you face to face That will make our joy complete
just as we also have forgiven those who sin against us.
Be faithful even if it means you must die
What should we do?
The Disciples Sadness Will Turn Into Joy
People like that are not serving Christ our Lord They are serving only themselves
I saw
The glory of the old covenant is nothing compared with the far greater glory of the new.
He found one that was very valuable. So he went away and sold everything he had. And he bought that pearl.
When I arrive I will send some people with your gift to Jerusalem They will be people you consider to be good And I will give those letters that explain who they are
But Paul and Barnabas didnt agree with this They argued strongly with them
After Jesus had sent the crowd away he got into the boat He went to the area near Magadan
Then Jesus said to him Get up and go Your faith has healed you
This baptism saves you by the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead
Then I saw a second beast
He also healed those who needed to be healed
We have that same spirit of faith.
Those who mourn should live as if they did not.
We are Jews by birth. We are not sinful Gentiles.
His mother was Jewish and a believer
We say that he is Lord. And we say that we serve you because of Jesus.
So we dont spend all our time looking at what we can see Instead we look at what we cant see Thats because what can be seen lasts only a short time But what cant be seen will last forever
But I tell you this On judgment day it will be easier for Tyre and Sidon than for you
We give thanks for the cup at the Lord’s Supper. When we do, aren’t we sharing in the blood of Christ? When we break the bread, aren’t we sharing in the body of Christ?
What Jesus did here in Cana in Galilee was the first of his signs.
They preached the good news in Perga Then they went down to Attalia
The fourth looked like a flying eagle
God accepted Abraham because he believed
We can now be sure that he will give us everything he promised us.
You can learn from us the meaning of the saying, “Don’t go beyond what is written.”
But the way to do what God requires must begin by having faith in him Scripture says Do not say in your heart Who will go up into heaven  That means to go up into heaven and bring Christ down
Im told that a man is sleeping with his fathers wife
Shealtiel was the son of Neri.
“Do you believe now?” Jesus replied.
One day Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s go over to the other side of the lake.” So they got into a boat and left.
Anyone who speaks in other languages builds up only themselves. But the person who prophesies builds up the church.
Some of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law came to Jesus. They said, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.”
Some claimed that he was.
Does his love comfort you at all
The prophets and teachers fasted and prayed. They placed their hands on Barnabas and Saul. Then they sent them off.
They openly said that they were outsiders and strangers on earth.
A person may build on it using gold silver jewels wood hay or straw
Arent five sparrows sold for two pennies
I know that his command leads to eternal life
None of our faces are covered with a veil All of us can see the Lords glory and think deeply about it
Have your roots in him Build yourselves up in him Grow strong in what you believe just as you were taught Be more thankful than ever before
I hope I can see you soon. Then we can talk face to face.
My dear brothers and sisters don’t let anyone fool you.
But God raised him from the dead He set him free from the suffering of death
The devil said to him If you are the Son of God tell this stone to become bread
But Noah preached about the right way to live. God kept him safe. He also saved seven others.
But if I spoke the truth why did you hit me
Godly Jews buried Stephen
Then Peter and John placed their hands on them
But God was not pleased with most of them
Greet all your leaders Greet the entire Lords people
Jesus replied You are mistaken because you do not know the Scriptures And you do not know the power of God
They came down the mountain. On the way down, Jesus told them what to do. “Don’t tell anyone what you have seen,” he said. “Wait until the Son of Man has been raised from the dead.”
He has been leading the Gentiles to obey God. He has been doing this by what I have said and done.
The beast who used to exist, and now does not, is an eighth king. He belongs to the other seven. He will be destroyed.
Pilate said Dont you understand I have the power to set you free or to nail you to a cross
We are like the earthly man. And we will be like the heavenly man.
Mary has chosen what is better.
Festus said, “King Agrippa, and everyone else here, take a good look at this man!
I am a witness about me The other witness about me is the Father who sent me
“Anyone who is not with me is against me. Anyone who does not gather sheep with me scatters them.
those who are spiritual are like the heavenly man.
Crucify him the crowd shouted
Let everyone know how gentle you are. The Lord is coming soon.
You are my friends if you do what I command.
He looked around at all of them. Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did, and his hand had been made as good as new.
Herod wanted to kill John. But he was afraid of the people, because they thought John was a prophet.
All these are the beginning of birth pains
It has now been made known through the coming of our Savior, Christ Jesus.
He must be killed and on the third day rise from the dead
They must not steal from them. Instead, they must show that they can be trusted completely.
The people were trying to kill Paul But news reached the commander of the Roman troops He heard that people were making trouble in the whole city of Jerusalem
So put on all of Gods armor Evil days will come But you will be able to stand up to anything And after you have done everything you can you will still be standing
That means Paul or Apollos or Peter or the world or life or death or the present or the future. All are yours.
Simon answered Master weve worked hard all night and havent caught anything
The Lord will command his angels to take good care of you
Who can separate us from Christ’s love? Can trouble or hard times or harm or hunger? Can nakedness or danger or war?
All who have come before me are thieves and robbers
Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus
The first foundation was made out of jasper.
There is no slave or free person. But Christ is everything. And he is in everything.
Here is the command God has given us. Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister.
All the people from the countryside of Judea went out to him All the people from Jerusalem went too When they admitted they had sinned John baptized them in the Jordan River
You must do this because the place where you are standing is holy ground
These people include those who practice witchcraft.
They came to a place called Golgotha The word Golgotha means the Place of the Skull
Then they will hand him over to the Gentiles The people will make fun of him and whip him They will nail him to a cross On the third day he will rise from the dead
We don’t want you to slow down. Instead, be like those who have faith and are patient. They will receive what God promised.
Warn that person more than once
“The man with two bags of gold also came. ‘Master,’ he said, ‘you trusted me with two bags of gold. See, I have earned two more.’
That’s the way it is with you. Now it’s your time to be sad.
Then everyone will see how you are coming along.
They went through it
“My soul is troubled. What should I say? ‘Father, keep me from having to go through with this’? No. This is the very reason I have come to this point in my life.
The parts that can be shown don’t need special care. But God has put together all the parts of the body. And he has given more honor to the parts that didn’t have any.
You have fallen away from God’s grace.
Those who take part in it will become more and more ungodly
The angel said to the women Dont be afraid I know that you are looking for Jesus who was crucified
I stayed with him for fiftyen days.
Then the man said, “Lord, I believe.” And he worshiped him.
When he had said this, he died.
A tenth of the city crumbled and fell.
He said to them Then why does David call him Lord The Holy Spirit spoke through David himself David said
I have seen it happen. I am a witness that this is God’s Chosen One.”
But God created those foods So people who believe and know the truth should receive them and give thanks for them
At once Jesus knew that power had gone out from him. He turned around in the crowd. He asked, “Who touched my clothes?”
All the angels were standing around the throne. They were standing around the elders and the four living creatures. They fell down on their faces in front of the throne and worshiped God.
They said to him, “That would take more than half a year’s pay! Should we go and spend that much on bread? Are we supposed to feed them?”
It’s the same with you. You must speak words that people understand. If you don’t, no one will know what you are saying. You will just be speaking into the air.
The Story of the Rich Fool
Jesus replied, “Friend, who made me a judge or umpire between you?”
Dont you know that your bodies belong to the body of Christ Should I take what belongs to Christ and join it to a prostitute Never
“So here is what I say to you. Ask, and it will be given to you. Search, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you.
I tell you, on that night two people will be in one bed. One person will be taken and the other left.
Everyone should provide for their own relatives
But when her baby is born, she forgets the pain.
At dawn Jesus went out to a place where he could be by himself
I tell you, use the riches of this world to help others. In that way, you will make friends for yourselves. Then when your riches are gone, you will be welcomed into your eternal home in heaven.
Hearing the law does not make a person right with God People are considered to be right with God only when they obey the law
They all knew that Timothy’s father was a Greek.
He is apt to be late.
Brothers and sisters remain strong in the faith Hold on to what we taught you We passed our teachings on to you by what we preached and wrote
They trap those who are not firm in their faith. They have mastered the art of getting what they want.
When Jesus finished saying these things he left Galilee He went into the area of Judea on the other side of the Jordan River
So the God who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your bodies.
Dear friends do not believe every spirit
I am no longer fit to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants.” ’
What I’m about to tell you is true.
Jesus noticed how the guests picked the places of honor at the table. So he told them a story.
I’ll say to myself,
They will certainly hear that you have come.
The high priest tore his clothes. “Why do we need any more witnesses?” he asked.
Then Jesus said, “Didn’t I tell you that if you believe, you will see God’s glory?”
Those who heard what he had said began to go away They left one at a time the older ones first
this happens in front of unbelievers
“You have said so,” Jesus replied.
Jesus replied, “Foxes have dens.
In fact, he throws them out of the church.
Then they will feel guilty about their sin
Thats because the one who is in you is powerful He is more powerful than the one who is in the world
They were very upset by what the apostles were teaching the people The apostles were saying that people can be raised from the dead They said this can happen because Jesus rose from the dead
Here is my command Love one another
The Father raises the dead and gives them life In the same way the Son gives life to anyone he wants to
The name of the star is Wormwood. A third of the water turned bitter. Many people died from it.
When others curse us we bless them
“No one can serve two masters at the same time. Either you will hate one of them and love the other. Or you will be faithful to one and dislike the other. You can’t serve God and money at the same time.”
But when they walk at night theyll trip and fall They have no light
It seems to me that God has put us apostles on display at the end of a parade. We are like people sentenced to die in front of a crowd. We have been made a show for the whole creation to see. Angels and people are staring at us.
They fell down on their faces in front of the throne and worshiped God.
Follow the lead of every human authority Do this for the Lords sake
Has he done anything wrong to you
He asked the priest for letters to the synagogues in Damascus.
I was born in Kyoto
So Philip ran up to the chariot. He heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet. “Do you understand what you’re reading?” Philip asked.
Hey you Please wait
It turned into blood like the blood of a dead person.
He saves us from God’s anger, and his anger is sure to come.
Is it easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven’? Or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?
Then you should pray, and God will give them life. I’m talking about someone whose sin does not lead to death.
The man was healed right away
Saul was from the tribe of Benjamin. He ruled for fourty years.
My suffering joins with and continues the sufferings of Christ. I suffer for his body, which is the church.
But here is something I hold against you You have turned away from the love you had at first
Soon only Jesus was left The woman was still standing there
They still did not believe that the man had been blind and now could see So they sent for his parents
It will be just like that on the day the Son of Man is shown to the world
Then the angel left her
So he gave us new life because of what Christ has done He gave us life even when we were dead in sin Gods grace has saved you
It is a rock that makes them fall.
If I preach because I want to, I get a reward. If I preach because I have to, I’m only doing my duty.
The king was very upset. But he thought about his promise and his dinner guests. So he did not want to say no to the girl.
flashes of lightning
You were stubborn when you opposed me.You did that when you were tested in the desert.
You have been brought from death to life. So give every part of yourself to God to do what is right.
Siloam means Sent So the man went and washed
is the Lord God who rules over all.’
The people expected him to swell up
He stood beside me and said
Paul Is Taken to Caesarea
There is no law against things of that kind.
Then I heard another voice from heaven. It said,
So he said to Philip, “Where can we buy bread for these people to eat?”
After he said this he stayed in Galilee
Joseph had not agreed with what the leaders had decided and done. He was from Arimathea, a town in Judea. He himself was waiting for God’s kingdom.
Aristarchus is in prison with me. He sends you his greetings. So does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas.
The Lord gave them bread from heaven to eat
And what about you Capernaum Will you be lifted to the heavens No You will go down to the place of the dead Suppose the miracles done in you had been done in Sodom It would still be here today
The head can’t say to the feet, “I don’t need you!”
I have a new red car.
If you really know me, you will know my Father also.
But what they do will show that they have turned their backs on God’s power.
Do your best to please God Be a worker who doesnt need to be ashamed Teach the message of truth correctly
Some believers came to me
Your faith will be tested. You know that when this happens it will produce in you the strength to continue.
Mr Chomau Mengstu is a government employee and his monthly salary is ,.
So why aren’t you treating me the same way now? Suppose you could have torn out your own eyes and given them to me. Then you would have done it. I am a witness to this.
This will happen on the day God appoints Jesus Christ to judge people’s secret thoughts. That’s part of my good news.
Jesus Is Buried
His master replied You have done well good and faithful slave You have been faithful with a few things I will put you in charge of many things Come and share your masters happiness
It is the same for anyone who takes part in a sport They dont receive the winners crown unless they play by the rules
God was pleased to bring all things back to himself. That’s because of what Christ has done. These things include everything on earth and in heaven. God made peace through Christ’s blood, by his death on the cross.
As it is, we are in danger of being charged with a crime. We could be charged with causing all this trouble today.
The Son of God keeps them safe.
So Jesus told them The time for me to show who I really am is not here yet
You need to be faithful Then you will do what God wants You will receive what he has promised
But if you do put up with me just as you would put up with a fool Then I can do a little bragging
He was the priest of God Most High.
Yes Father This is what you wanted to do
Timothy and Epaphroditus
I agree
Lord you are the King over allNow let me your servant go in peaceThat is what you promised
Jesus Chooses Levi and Eats With Sinners
I say these things while I am still in the world I say them so that those you gave me can have the same joy that I have
But the Lamb will have victory over them
They won’t be thankful or holy.
And you have stood in the way of those who were entering
Now Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard about him
Father bring glory to your name
He said to them, “Then why does David call him ‘Lord’? The Holy Spirit spoke through David himself. David said,
People were causing trouble and making a lot of noise.
When it arrives there it finds the house swept clean and put in order
They heard Paul talk about the dead being raised. Some of them made fun of this idea. But others said, “We want to hear you speak about this again.”
I would rather die than allow anyone to take away my pride in my work.
And in their tails they had power to hurt people over and over for five months
So they took him and killed him. They threw him out of the vineyard.
He says
In a way, he did receive Isaac back from death.
They were burned by the blazing heat
Paul writes the same way in all his letters
“Blessed are those invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb!”
This bread is my body I will give it for the life of the world
I am warning everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book. Suppose someone adds anything to them.
Jesus looked at him. Then he said, “How hard it is for rich people to enter God’s kingdom!
Offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded. It will be a witness to the priest and the people that you are ‘clean.’ ”
He has brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves
They asked each other Who will roll the stone away from the entrance to the tomb
They stood still, and their faces were sad.
Come And the person who hears should say
“Do not give holy things to dogs. Do not throw your pearls to pigs. If you do, they might walk all over them. They might turn around and tear you to pieces.
Then they sang a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives
They took him to a meeting of the Areopagus. There they said to him, “What is this new teaching you’re giving us?
The Scriptures you study are a witness about me
He went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard He talked with them about how he could hand Jesus over to them
to serve Christ Jesus among the Gentiles. I have the duty of a priest to preach God’s good news. Then the Gentiles will become an offering that pleases God.
Follow us
Im talking about his eternal power and about the fact that he is God
Every time, rising prices are testing citizens።
I dislike big cities
Night and day we pray very hard that we will see you again We want to give you what is missing in your faith
Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch. There they and many others taught and preached the word of the Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve as did our people of long ago. I serve God, knowing that what I have done is right. Night and day I thank God for you. Night and day I always remember you in my prayers.
Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood remains in me. And I remain in them.
“Then he said to those standing by, ‘Take his money away from him. Give it to the one who has ten times as much.’
After the Wise Men had listened to the king, they went on their way. The star they had seen when it rose went ahead of them. It finally stopped over the place where the child was.
Sometimes you were treated badly
Throughout Judea’s hill country,
So Gods people must be patient and faithful
You will see but never know what you are seeing
Jesus said Woman believe me A time is coming when you will not worship the Father on this mountain or in Jerusalem
They must turn away from evil and do good.
Those are the things that make you ‘unclean.’ But eating without washing your hands does not make you ‘unclean.’ ”
There we found some believers
So he asked him Do you want to get well
No worker of any kind
Then everything will be clean for you.
If you greet only your own people what more are you doing than others Even people who are ungodly do that
We belong to the Lord Jesus Christ
Joseph and Mary Take Jesus to the Temple
I didn't do it alone.
Enoch was the seventh man in the family line of Adam He gave a prophecy about these people
I didn’t come to judge the world. I came to save the world.
The apostles in Jerusalem heard that people in Samaria had accepted God’s word. So they sent Peter and John to Samaria.
I will do it for anyone who carries out my plans to the end. I will give that person authority over the nations.
I am like a gate for the sheep
There they continued to preach the good news
So you also must be ready The Son of Man will come at an hour when you dont expect him
Every sea captain
We ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead
Then a mighty angel picked up a huge rock. It was the size of a large millstone. He threw it into the sea. Then he said,
‘He will lead them to springs of living water.’
They thought he was somewhere in their group So they traveled on for a day
All the people in town gathered at the door
Be shepherds of God’s church. He bought it with his own blood.
The chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things he did. They also saw the children in the temple courtyard shouting, “Hosanna to the Son of David!” But when they saw all this, they became angry.
Everyone who does evil deeds hates the light
but you cant get what you want
That is why many of you are weak and sick That is why a number of you have died
If one part suffers, every part suffers with it. If one part is honored, every part shares in its joy.
Up to this very hour we are hungry and thirsty We are dressed in rags We are being treated badly We have no homes
“I was away for several years. Then I came to Jerusalem to bring my people gifts for those who were poor. I also came to offer sacrifices.
When I saw him, I fell at his feet as if I were dead.
There is only one God. When those who are circumcised believe in him,
God shows his anger from heaven. It is against all the godless
Hold on to what you have. Then no one will take away your crown.
Final Greetings
“Ask Jesus which one he means.”
Jesus said to them, “A prophet is honored everywhere except in his own town. He doesn’t receive any honor among his relatives or in his own home.”
I baptize you with water
Those who come to God must believe that he exists
A holy tent was set up. The lampstand was in the first room. So was the table with its holy bread. That was called the Holy Room.
Then the angel took the gold cup and filled it with fire from the altar. He threw it down on the earth. There were rumblings and thunder, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake.
Maybe you think differently about something But God will make it clear to you
I had no idea how to look into such matters So I asked Paul if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem There he could be tried on these charges
So Im asking you not to give in to your sinful desires They fight against your soul
Jesus said, “You believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree. You will see greater things than that.”
Jesus said, “Woman, believe me. A time is coming when you will not worship the Father on this mountain or in Jerusalem.
Here is what God says about the Son
A voice came from the cloud. It said, “This is my Son, and I have chosen him. Listen to him.”
So I’m asking you to follow my example.
You are still following the ways of the world.
The Holy Spirit gives life
here is one thing you must not forget
He asked, “Does our law find a man guilty without hearing him first?
Then he sailed from Ephesus.
You have heard that Job was patient.
Here is the name that is written on the rider’s robe and on his thigh.The Greatest King of All and the Most Powerful Lord of All
Training the body has some value
I am not from this world.
Make level paths for your feet to walk on Then those who have trouble walking wont be disabled Instead they will be healed
We should keep the peace!
Sit at my right handi will put your enemies
What is hidden will be seen.
If you would arent you treating some people better than others Arent you like judges who have evil thoughts
Boaz was the son of Salmon.
Their worship doesnt mean anything to me
“Tell James and the other brothers and sisters about this,” he said. Then he went to another place.
Now someone else is building on it
Dont act as if you were a ruler over those under your care Instead be examples to the flock
We are telling people about these things.
Heaven and earth will pass away
I dont want to swim
They renewed my spirit and yours also
All who depend on obeying the law are under a curse. It is written, “May everyone who doesn’t continue to do everything written in the Book of the Law be under God’s curse.”
So Jesus is not ashamed to call them his brothers and sisters
And no one will take away your joy.
All your riches
His letters include some things that are hard to understand.
They could not buy or sell anything unless they had the mark The mark is the name of the beast or the number of its name
Dont argue about things like that
When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad.
When you are invited into a house stay there until you leave town
So there was great joy in that city.
We couldn’t wait any longer.
Are they Hebrews? So am I. Do they belong to the people of Israel? So do I. Are they Abraham’s children? So am I.
Suppose a woman is a believer and takes care of widows She should continue to help them She shouldnt let the church pay the expenses Then the church can help the widows who really need it
Let the person who does right keep on doing what is right.
Is there any value in being circumcised
Even those who pierced him will see him.
All who heard him were amazed They asked Isnt he the man who caused great trouble in Jerusalem Didnt he make trouble for those who worship Jesus
All who depend on obeying the law are under a curse It is written May everyone who doesnt continue to do everything written in the Book of the Law be under Gods curse
Dont forget to welcome outsiders By doing that some people have welcomed angels without knowing it
I know everybody here
Make your hearts pure
Why do you act like you’re better than they are?
But what does it matter
My Father will honor the one who serves me.
The good news shows Gods power to make people right with himself
You wont know when I will come to you
The heated stone is a depiction of the common, and the stone was raised with the grass yell being thrown to show the Jews throwing the cross at dirt።
Jesus answered, “Keep watch! Be careful that no one fools you.
Please help them by sending them on their way in a manner that honors God
the patch from the new clothes will not match the old clothes
From that time on Jesus began to preach. “Turn away from your sins!” he said. “The kingdom of heaven has come near.”
have put up with a lot of trouble because of me
I was afraid of you You are a hard man You take out what you did not put in You harvest what you did not plant
My brothers and sisters you are believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ So treat everyone the same
Young people playing in groups played the story to us, referring to the army that Queen Eleni called Come።
Jesus Chooses Philip and Nathanael
We were having a lot of trouble It was far more than we could stand We even thought we were going to die
Just like Jannes and Jambres their foolish ways will be clear to everyone
Paul’s Rights as an Apostle
time came for making Mary clean as required by the Law of Moses
Anyone who does wrong will be paid back for what they do. God treats everyone the same.
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.”
But there is only one body.
So Abraham is the father of all believers who have not been circumcised
Elijah was a human being, just as we are.
You will be thrown out of the synagogue.
The great city split into three parts
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus said. “That poor widow has put in more than all the others.
In fact, we do just the opposite. We present the truth plainly.
Give to everyone who asks you
A person cant sin by breaking a law if that law doesnt exist
The Jews there were amazed They asked How did this man learn so much without being taught
Also bring my books. Most of all, bring the ones made out of animal skins.
Then the two witnesses heard a loud voice from heaven It said to them Come up here
“A time is coming when you will see armies surround Jerusalem. Then you will know that it will soon be destroyed.
John is a witness to everything he saw What he saw is Gods word and what Jesus Christ has said
The dragons tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky It threw the stars down to earth
Jesus came down from the mountainside. Large crowds followed him.
I hope somehow to stir up my own people to want what you have. Perhaps I can save some of them.
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Pergamum.
A large number of Greeks who worshiped God joined them too. So did quite a few important women.
But they all had the same idea They began to make excuses The first one said I have just bought a field I have to go and see it Please excuse me
Moses was faithful in everything he did in the house of God
The Holy Spirit spoke through David himself David said
Keep on remembering those in prison. Do this as if you were together with them in prison.
Praise and cursing come out of the same mouth. My brothers and sisters, it shouldn’t be this way.
That person should show it by living a good life
This makes us believe that you came from God
It is written, “The one who is right with God will live by faith.”
But it is raised as a spiritual body.
Then he will be able to use true teaching to comfort others and build them up
Then you will be holy and without blame in the sight of our God and Father
Greet all Gods people They belong to Christ Jesus
Jesus has been given a place of honor at the right hand of God. He has received the Holy Spirit from the Father. This is what God had promised. It is Jesus who has poured out what you now see and hear.
Their pay is crying out against you
These men haven’t robbed any temples.
They will walk with me, dressed in white, because they are worthy.
In Joppa there was a believer named Tabitha.
You heard about Christ and were taught about life in him. What you learned was the truth about Jesus.
I am not seeking glory for myself.
Life was in him and that life was the light for all people
We brag about your faith in all the suffering and testing you are going through
We know that God spoke to Moses. But we don’t even know where this fellow comes from.”
Don’t be afraid of what you are going to suffer. I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison to test you. You will be treated badly for ten days. Be faithful, even if it means you must die. Then I will give you life as your crown of victory.
But the servants who had brought the water knew Then the person in charge called the groom to one side
Blessed are those who hear it and think everything it says is important
The voice said, “Set the four angels free who are held at the great river Euphrates.”
Suppose the owner of the house knew at what hour the robber was coming.
Paul Gives Thanks
They asked him, “Who is this fellow? Who told you to pick it up and walk?”
Shortly before dawn, Jesus went out to the disciples. He walked on the lake.
You killed the one who gives life. But God raised him from the dead. We are witnesses of this.
And the Word was full of grace and truth
You know very well how many ways Onesiphorus helped me in Ephesus
Later I returned to Damascus.
Later Jesus was alone. The twelve disciples asked him about the stories. So did the others around him.
The time will come when you will say Blessed are the women who cant have children Blessed are those who never gave birth or nursed babies
If you do you will be judged
So I plan to see you when I go to Spain. I hope to visit you while I am passing through.
No one has ever seen God But the One and only is God and is at the Fathers side
Who cares
He sends you his greetings Our brother Quartus also greets you
On his journey, Saul approached Damascus.
As it is we are in danger of being charged with a crime We could be charged with causing all this trouble today
At one time you were far away from God. But now you belong to Christ Jesus. He spilled his blood for you. This has brought you near to God.
But when someone stronger attacks, he is overpowered. The attacker takes away the armor the man had trusted in. Then he divides up what he has stolen.
Then he said to them Watch out Be on your guard against wanting to have more and more things
Carry one another’s heavy loads. If you do, you will fulfill the law of Christ.
Though you are only a human being, you judge others. But you yourself do the same things. So how do you think you will escape when God judges you?
I’ll pay it back. I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand.
Here is the message we have heard from him and announce to you God is light There is no darkness in him at all
And you my child
When I brag about myself like this Im not talking the way the Lord would Im talking like a fool
Right away the boat reached the shore where they were heading
The Jews in the crowd pushed Alexander to the front. They tried to tell him what to say. But he motioned for them to be quiet. He was about to give the people reasons for his actions.
You can trust this saying These things are important
They only heard others say,
Then no one would have looked for another covenant.
Im writing these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God Im writing so you will know that you have eternal life
He did not say this on his own because he was high priest at that time.
And that’s not all. We are full of joy even when we suffer. We know that our suffering gives us the strength to go on.
Even so, Abraham was going to offer him up.
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come in
When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him. But Mary stayed at home.
She could fly to the place prepared for her in the desert. There she would be taken care of for three and a half years. She would be out of the serpent’s reach.
Is anyone among you wise and understanding That person should show it by living a good life A wise person isnt proud when they do good deeds
We are made right with God by putting our faith in Jesus Christ.
But you teach the way of God truthfully
There it says,“‘People of Israel,
But no human being can judge those who have the Spirit. It is written,
I dont want to see you now while I am just passing through
The next day we left and arrived at Caesarea. We stayed at the house of Philip the evangelist. He was one of the seven deacons.
But when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth.
Not at all As far as sin is concerned we are dead So how can we keep on sinning
So Jesus said, “You will lift up the Son of Man. Then you will know that I am he. You will also know that I do nothing on my own. I speak just what the Father has taught me.
Whoever comes to me will never go hungry
The people of the island saw the snake hanging from his hand They said to one another This man must be a murderer
How was the seminar
In the church, I wouldn’t want to speak , words in an unfamiliar language. I’d rather speak five words in a language people could understand. Then I would be teaching others.
The one who sent me is with me.
Those who are in Judea should then escape to the mountains. Those in the city should get out. Those in the country should not enter the city.
you will face all kinds of trouble When you do think of it as pure joy
“Look! I am coming like a thief!
So Pilate asked Jesus, “Are you the king of the Jews?”
But a donkey corrected him for the wrong he did Animals dont speak But the donkey spoke with a human voice It tried to stop the prophet from doing a very dumb thing
But the Lord said to Ananias Go I have chosen this man to work for me
Lord he said my servant lies at home and cant move He is suffering terribly
They were whipped without mercy. Then they were thrown into prison.
But Abraham believed in Gods promise He became strong in his faith He gave glory to God
We have seen it and are witnesses to it.
Otherwise they might see with their eyes.
A group of Epicurean and Stoic thinkers began to argue with him. Some of them asked, “What is this fellow chattering about?”
Even more will be asked of the person who is supposed to take care of much
From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free.
There she entered Zechariah’s home and greeted Elizabeth.
So Christ himself gave the gift of the apostles to the church. He gave the prophets and those who preach the good news. And he also gave the pastors and teachers as a gift to the church.
“But God said to him, ‘You foolish man! Tonight I will take your life away from you.
Everything that belongs to the Father is mine
Then Jesus entered the temple courtyard. He began to drive out those who were selling there.
Suppose I speak in the languages of human beings or of angels If I dont have love I am only a loud gong or a noisy cymbal
Then your joy will be complete.
No one can lay any other foundation than what has already been laid
While Apollos was at Corinth, Paul took the road to Ephesus. When he arrived, he found some believers there.
Because you are human, you find this hard to understand.
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit
generals,
It will also show the world that you have loved those you gave me
Sir the servant said what you ordered has been done But there is still room
The dragon is that old serpent called the devil or Satan
All of them have turned away
I planted the seed Apollos watered it But God has been making it grow
But you do have this in your favor.
Up to this very hour we are hungry
Not very far away many women were watching They had followed Jesus from Galilee to take care of his needs
He has seated us with him in his heavenly kingdom Thats because we belong to Christ Jesus
And one star’s glory is different from that of another star.
After all, no one ever hated their own body. Instead, they feed and care for their body. And this is what Christ does for the church.
He shows his mercy to those who have respect for himfrom parent to child down through the years
Then a voice came from heaven.
The two disciples heard him say this So they followed Jesus
Don’t eat meat if it causes your brother or sister to sin. Don’t drink wine or do anything else that will make them sin.
Then they gave themselves to us because that was what God wanted
Be at peace with God
Now remain in my love
we know that we have it
It can’t.
So you will pay for all the godly people’s blood spilled on earth. I mean from the blood of godly Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Berekiah. Zechariah was the one you murdered between the temple and the altar.
Then I remembered the Lords words John baptized with water
Jesus was tired from the journey
commanded them not to do it
We are poor but we make many people rich
He listened as Paul spoke
John the Baptist was in prison When he heard about the actions of the Messiah he sent his disciples to him
The body means nothing at all
Do not make them in the name of the earth That is the stool for Gods feet Do not make them in the name of Jerusalem That is the city of the Great King
At noon, darkness covered the whole land. It lasted three hours.
I have always wanted to preach the good news where Christ was not known. I don’t want to build on what someone else has started.
you wont find me
People promise things by someone greater than themselves. Giving your word makes a promise certain. It puts an end to all arguing.
No one who remains joined to him keeps on sinning
But I will see you again. Then you will be full of joy.
Brothers and sisters, let me give you an example from everyday life. No one can get rid of an official agreement between people. No one can add to it. It can’t be changed after it has been made. It is the same with God’s covenant agreement.
Then your joy will be complete
Suppose I give everything I have to poor people
Make sure that you don’t forget what you have heard from the beginning.
Jesus had often met in that place with his disciples.
Then Jesus asked the demon, “What is your name?”
Each person should test their own actions Then they can take pride in themselves They wont be comparing themselves to someone else
Look your house is left empty I tell you you will not see me again until you say Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord
I decided to use you to show my power I wanted my name to become known everywhere on earth
So we thought it was best to be left by ourselves in Athens.
Peter asked her, “Tell me. Is this the price you and Ananias sold the land for?”“Yes,” she said.
Dear friends Im not writing you a new command Instead Im writing one you have heard before You have had it since the beginning
Jesus was Gods Son But by suffering he learned what it means to obey
And over all these good things put on love. Love holds them all together perfectly as if they were one.
They have put their lives in danger for me I am thankful for them So are all the Gentile churches
How long will it be until you pay them back for killing us
“Come and follow me,” Jesus said. “I will send you out to fish for people.”
From now on let no one cause trouble for me My body has marks that show I belong to Jesus
Unless they do this, they can’t be my disciple.
Then the demon threw the man down in front of everybody And it came out without hurting him
Long ago, God’s word brought the heavens into being. His word separated the earth from the waters.
They were talking with each other about everything that had happened
We will not be ashamed to meet him when he comes
You know that the Lord will give each person a reward He will give it to them in keeping with the good they do It doesnt matter whether they are a slave or not
LUKE 
Let down the nets so you can catch some fish.”
The light shines in the darkness
So dont worry Dont say What will we eat Or What will we drink Or What will we wear
His speech won the leaders over. They called the apostles in and had them whipped. The leaders ordered them not to speak in Jesus’ name. Then they let the apostles go.
Jesus Family Escapes to Egypt
He was elected mayor
I have won the battle over the world.”
Peter Will Say He Does Not Know Jesus
Jesus Walks on the Water
Everything goes on in the same way it has since our people of long ago died
I am not well at all
We are receiving a kingdom that can’t be shaken. So let us be thankful.
If I go and do that I will come back And I will take you to be with me Then you will also be where I am
They won’t love others. They won’t forgive others. They will tell lies about people. They will be out of control. They will be wild. They will hate what is good.
Then the rest of the sick people on the island came They too were healed
What more can I say
But we do see Jesus already given a crown of glory and honor. He was made lower than the angels for a little while.
Apollos wanted to go to Achaia The brothers and sisters agreed with him
Use the truth to make them holy. Your word is truth.
You are Gods special treasure
Again they tried to arrest him
So Peter was kept in prison. But the church prayed hard to God for him.
A third of the living creatures in the sea died A third of the ships were destroyed
With the Lord a day is like a thousand years. And a thousand years are like a day.
Whoever has ears should listen
After Judas was gone, Jesus spoke. He said, “Now the Son of Man receives glory.
we will also live with him.
What happens when an evil spirit comes out of a person It goes through dry areas looking for a place to rest
I know that you are Abraham’s children.
But they didnt see anything unusual happen to him So they changed their minds
The prayer offered by those who have faith will make the sick person well. The Lord will heal them. If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.
The crowd didnt know what was going on Some were shouting one thing and some another
On the other side there was a garden Jesus and his disciples went into it
But Martha was busy with all the things that had to be done. She came to Jesus and said, “Lord, my sister has left me to do the work by myself. Don’t you care? Tell her to help me!”
Death also has its benefits
Ever since God created the world his works have been finished
But God didnt use a go-between when he made his promise to Abraham
You have answered correctly Jesus replied
So they suggested the names of two men One was Joseph who was called Barsabbas He was also called Justus The other man was Matthias
All who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them
Then the Jewish leaders asked him What sign can you show us to prove your authority to do this
Still another person said, “I will follow you, Lord.
God’s people share in what belongs to his Son. Their names are written in heaven.
Tall grass waving in the wind
You know how you should follow our example.
Sin entered the world because one man sinned And death came because of sin Everyone sinned so death came to all people
The world is guilty as far as sin is concerned Thats because people do not believe in me
Theres nothing else we can do We have to speak about the things weve seen and heard
Then the angel spoke to me. “You saw the waters the prostitute sits on,” he said. “They stand for all the nations of the world, no matter what their race or language is.
The Jews there were amazed. They asked, “How did this man learn so much without being taught?”
He let them go on worshiping the sun moon and stars
At once the Holy Spirit gave me a vision There in front of me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it
They shouted back, “No! Not him! Give us Barabbas!” Barabbas had taken part in an armed struggle against the country’s rulers.
No one takes it from me. I give it up myself. I have the authority to give it up. And I have the authority to take it back again. I received this command from my Father.”
But if it dies, it produces many seeds.
King of the nations
A soldier does not take part in things that don’t have anything to do with the army. Instead, he tries to please his commanding officer.
Peter and his companions had been very sleepy. But then they became completely awake. They saw Jesus’ glory and the two men standing with him.
Throughout Judeas hill country
His grace teaches us to say no to godless ways and sinful desires We must control ourselves We must do what is right We must lead godly lives in todays world
People were causing trouble and making a lot of noise
After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven.
But hope that can be seen is no hope at all
He rode out like a hero on his way to victory
Our Lord poured out more and more of his grace on me. Along with it came faith and love from Christ Jesus.
She had suffered a great deal even though she had gone to many doctors She had spent all the money she had But she was getting worse not better
An evil man says evil things These come from the evil that is stored up in his heart
In my mouth it tasted as sweet as honey.
But he will reply I dont know you And I dont know where you come from Get away from me all you who do evil
In a loud voice he said,
Jesus looked at them and said, “With people, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible.”
Im writing this to you so that you will not sin
Many false prophets will appear. They will fool many people.
Jesus answered, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
did you offerings For fourty years in the desert
Instead, go to those who believe in me. Tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father
He rode out like a hero on his way to victory.
Now you believe in Christ Jesus So consider yourselves to be alive as far as God is concerned
I tell you, God can rise up children for Abraham even from these stones.
Jesus looked at them and said, “With people, this is impossible. But not with God. All things are possible with God.”
So God let them continue to have their shameful desires
Do Not Worry
Priscilla and Aquila went with him
I will be your Father
I speak to you as if you were my children. It is only fair that you open your hearts wide to us also.
Then you will be able to put up with the same suffering we have gone through
You pretender! First take the piece of wood out of your own eye. Then you will be able to see clearly to take the bit of sawdust out of your friend’s eye.
At noon darkness covered the whole land It lasted three hours
But now I feel I should write and ask you to stand up for the faith Gods holy people were trusted with it once and for all time
The third was made out of agate.
When he had given thanks he broke it He said This is my body It is given for you Every time you eat it do it in memory of me
We stayed with them for a day
When Jesus came near the house, the Roman commander sent friends to him. He told them to say, “Lord, don’t trouble yourself. I am not good enough to have you come into my house.
“Rulers and elders of the people!
“No one can serve two masters at the same time. You will hate one of them and love the other. Or you will be faithful to one and dislike the other. You can’t serve God and money at the same time.
Many false prophets have gone out into the world.
We embrace him as our apostle and our high priest
It was before he was circumcised, not after!
That time it rained.
They didn’t thank him.
You will be brought to governors and kings because of me. You will be witnesses to them and to the Gentiles.
with burnt offerings and sin offerings
He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood.
Melki was the son of Jannai
Doesnt it say that he will come from Bethlehem the town where David lived
So they went and made the tomb secure They put a royal seal on the stone and placed some guards on duty
But they didn’t understand what this meant.
Won’t that person become bold and eat what is sacrificed to statues of gods?
The agreement includes wide scopes of cooperation in social economic political and military fields
“No,” they answered. “We haven’t even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.”
I will write my laws on their minds.”
Isn’t his mother’s name Mary?
Right now you have plenty in order to take care of what they need. Then they will have plenty to take care of what you need. The goal is to even things out.
I resign.
In a loud voice she called out
Ive decided to spend the winter there
The sting of death is sin And the power of sin is the law
I know that when I come to you I will come with the full blessing of Christ
All the people gathered around him there
Master said John we saw someone driving out demons in your name
And what is out of date and has been done away with will soon disappear
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So Jesus spoke to the man who could not walk.
Besides we have all had human fathers who trained us We respected them for it How much more should we be trained by the Father of spirits and live
The great gift that God has for us does not depend on the law If it did it would no longer depend on the promise But God gave it to Abraham as a free gift through a promise
Jesus pointed to his disciples He said Here is my mother Here are my brothers
Then Eve was made
Then your giving will be done secretly Your Father will reward you because he sees what you do secretly
I Paul am a prisoner because of Christ Jesus I am in prison because of my work among you who are Gentiles
Mary stayed with Elizabeth about three months Then she returned home
Then a cloud appeared and covered them A voice came from the cloud It said This is my Son and I love him Listen to him
Whoever has ears should listen
I don’t understand what I do.
A woman from Samaria came to get some water.
The sun was allowed to burn people with fire
The people were shouting,
They all asked, “Are you the Son of God then?”
They put out great fires
Christ is the one we preach about With all the wisdom we have we warn and teach everyone
they begged us for the chance to share in serving the Lord’s people in that way.
They are born because of what God does
They ate as much as they wanted. They needed to make the ship lighter. So they threw the rest of the grain into the sea.
Anyone who believes in the Son has eternal life. Anyone who does not believe in the Son will not have life. God’s anger remains on them.”
How dare you talk like that to us!”
Here is my opinion about what is best for you in that matter. Last year you were the first to give. You were also the first to want to give.
But only the high priest went into the inner room. He went in only once a year. He never entered without taking blood with him. He offered the blood for himself. He also offered it for the sins the people had committed because they didn’t know any better.
The disciples did so and everyone sat down
Suppose someone adds anything to them
Some people claim they are Jews but are not
A large crowd met Jesus.
He answered What if a man divorces his wife and gets married to another woman He commits adultery against her
False messiahs and false prophets will appear. They will do great signs and miracles. They will try to fool God’s chosen people if possible.
John said many other things to warn the people He also announced the good news to them
When he had given thanks, he broke it. He said, “This is my body. It is given for you.
They must not drink too much wine
But the Spirit himself prays for us. He prays through groans too deep for words.
“At midnight someone cried out, ‘Here’s the groom! Come out to meet him!’
There they mixed wine with bitter spices and gave it to Jesus to drink After tasting it he refused to drink it
They will be wild
Follow my example I try to please everyone in every way Im not looking out for what is good for me Im looking out for the interests of others I do it so that they might be saved
But I ask,
The light of a lamp will never shine in you again.
I will pour out my Spirit on both men and women.
But I still had no peace of mind I couldnt find my brother Titus there So I said goodbye to the believers at Troas and went on to Macedonia
“You will be brought before synagogues, rulers and authorities. But do not worry about how to stand up for yourselves or what to say.
That’s why God warned Moses when he was about to build the holy tent.
Then that person is proud and doesn’t understand anything. They like to argue more than they should. They can’t agree about what words mean. All of this results in wanting what others have. It causes fighting, harmful talk, and evil distrust.
“Or think about this. How can you enter a strong man’s house and just take what the man owns? You must first tie him up. Then you can rob his house.
Agrippa said to Paul You may now present your case
But you have come to Mount Zion You have come to the city of the living God This is the heavenly Jerusalem You have come to a joyful gathering of angels There are thousands and thousands of them
Those he has appointed, he has made right with himself.
Those who were tending the pigs ran off. They went into the town and reported all this. They told the people what had happened to the men who had been controlled by demons.
Good
This kind of person cant make up their mind
And suppose someone brings that person back
In the same way Jesus was faithful to the God who appointed him
Suppose a brother has a wife who is not a believer If she is willing to live with him he must not divorce her
They were having their evening meal. The devil had already tempted Judas, son of Simon Iscariot. He had urged Judas to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
Jacob and his sons couldnt find food
Crescens has gone to Galatia.
He wiped out what the law said that we owed The law stood against us It judged us But he has taken it away and nailed it to the cross
That foundation is Jesus Christ.
Jesus said Young man I say to you get up
Stand up to him Remain strong in what you believe You know that you are not alone in your suffering The family of believers throughout the world is going through the same thing
You should obey your Father. You shouldn’t give in to evil desires. They controlled your life when you didn’t know any better.
But we dont know how he can now see And we dont know who opened his eyes Ask him He is an adult He can speak for himself
There were three gates on the east
I can be happy that I didn’t run or work for nothing.
When the devil finished all this tempting, he left Jesus until a better time.
Cainan was the son of Arphaxad
If your right eye causes you to sin, poke it out and throw it away. Your eye is only one part of your body. It is better to lose an eye than for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
Anyone who believes in him is not judged
“Go,” said Jesus. “Your faith has healed you.” Right away he could see. And he followed Jesus along the road.
You have spoken well teacher the man replied You are right in saying that God is one There is no other God but him
Jesus replied Let it be this way for now It is right for us to do this It carries out Gods holy plan Then John agreed
Before time began God promised to give that life And he does not lie
The believers at Lystra and Iconium said good things about Timothy
But Peter said, “I may have to die with you. But I will never say I don’t know you.” And all the other disciples said the same thing.
Command people who are rich in this world not to be proud.
So I want even more to send him to you Then when you see him again you will be glad And I wont worry so much
I have other sheep that do not belong to this sheep pen.
So turn away from your sins. Turn to God. Then your sins will be wiped away. The time will come when the Lord will make everything new.
You do not honor me.
Martha served the food
I dont do what I want to do
What I know now is not complete.
Were you baptized in the name of Paul
I rule on a throne like a queen
But he had no idea that what the angel was doing was really happening He thought he was seeing a vision
But Jesus told him, “Follow me. Let the dead bury their own dead.”
I appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit that will last.
They said to Jesus, “Teacher, this woman was caught sleeping with a man who was not her husband.
But it makes no difference to me what they were
Abraham was looking forward to the city that has foundations
The Law and the Promise
“His master replied, ‘I will judge you by your own words, you evil slave! So you knew that I am a hard man? You knew that I take out what I did not put in? You knew that I harvest what I did not plant?
You are the body of Christ Each one of you is a part of it
The sevety two returned with joy. They said,
He is a dear brother
God’s people need to be very patient.
“Yes, Lord,” she replied. “I believe that you are the Messiah, the Son of God. I believe that you are the one who is supposed to come into the world.”
“Lord Jesus, receive my spirit,” he said.
Dont pay back evil with evil Be careful to do what everyone thinks is right
They deal only with food and drink and different kinds of special washings. They are rules people had to obey only until the new covenant came.
The reason my Father loves me is that I give up my life.
These people honor me by what they say
We labored night and day while we preached to you God’s good news. We didn’t want to cause you any expense.
A woman from Canaan lived near Tyre and Sidon. She came to him and cried out, “Lord! Son of David! Have mercy on me! A demon controls my daughter. She is suffering terribly.”
He will give himself power over everything.
Suppose you have not been worthy of trust in handling worldly wealth Then who will trust you with true riches
But then that servant went out and found one of the other servants who owed him one hundred silver coins He grabbed him and began to choke him Pay back what you owe me he said
Each person should carry their own load.
“Go now and leave your life of sin.”
What should we say about these things What did Abraham the father of our people discover about being right with God
If it were, those who serve me would fight.
I tell this one Go and he goes
Peter went down and spoke to the men. “I’m the one you’re looking for,” he said. “Why have you come?”
“You unbelieving and evil people!” Jesus replied.
Fathers, don’t make your children bitter. If you do, they will lose hope.
It is shameful even to talk about what people who dont obey do in secret
And the seven golden lampstands you saw stand for the seven churches
Grab Abrham
Now come. I will send you back to Egypt.’
The other believers heard about this They took Saul down to Caesarea From there they sent him off to Tarsus
And suppose the ear says I am not an eye So I dont belong to the body By saying this it cannot stop being part of the body
So the man sent another slave They beat that one and treated him badly They also sent him away with nothing
From there we headed out to sea again We passed the calmer side of Cyprus because the winds were against us
Some people plant to please their desires controlled by sin From these desires they will harvest death Others plant to please the Holy Spirit From the Spirit they will harvest eternal life
The whole law is fulfilled by obeying this one command
Right away he called out to them. They left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men. Then they followed Jesus.
Some believers had been scattered by the suffering that unbelievers had caused them
It was then given out to anyone who needed it
Before long the grain ripens. So the farmer cuts it down, because the harvest is ready.”
Every Sabbath day he went to the synagogue. He was trying to get both Jews and Greeks to believe in the Lord.
“Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God. Believe in me also.
The girl was  years old. Right away she stood up and began to walk around. They were totally amazed at this.
Thats because God has accepted them
“I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End,” says the Lord God. “I am the God who is, and who was, and who will come. I am the Mighty One.”
They tried to tell him what to say. But he motioned for them to be quiet.
Peter Says He Does Not Know Jesus
What if it says that the day of the Lord has already come?
The crowd was really amazed. They asked, “Aren’t all these people who are speaking Galileans?
Don’t do anything foolish.
I give a command to those who are married It is a direct command from the Lord not from me A wife must not leave her husband
In that way what the prophet Isaiah had said came true He had said
Peter and John Are Taken to the Sanhedrin
What Im about to tell you is true The people living now will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened
Later Jesus was having dinner at Levis house Many tax collectors and sinners were eating with him and his disciples They were part of the large crowd following Jesus
Just hold on to what you have until I come
In Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate is a pool. In the Aramaic language it is called Bethesda. It is surrounded by five rows of columns with a roof over them.
As you know, we think that people who don’t give up are blessed.
For me, life finds all its meaning in Christ.
It stirs up trouble all the time among people whose minds are twisted by sin.
Suppose I decide to brag.
Three days after Festus arrived he went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem
He will be handed over to the Gentiles. They will make fun of him. They will laugh at him and spit on him.
While they were going out another man was brought to Jesus A demon controlled him and he could not speak
He called the  disciples to him Then he began to send them out two by two He gave them authority to drive out evil spirits
What I’m about to tell you is true. Everyone’s sins and evil words against God will be forgiven.
Some are also faithful today They have been chosen by Gods grace
But food doesnt bring us close to God We are no worse if we dont eat We are no better if we do eat
Command and teach these things.
the prophets also forced us to leave.
But many people were coming and going. So they did not even have a chance to eat. Then Jesus said to his apostles, “Come with me by yourselves to a quiet place. You need to get some rest.”
Hold firmly to it
Make sure that no one pays back one wrong act with another.
The same amount you give will be measured out to you.”
The church is Christ’s body. He is its Savior.
Our words are different from those of the rulers of this worldThese rulers are becoming less and less powerful
But God gives you the gift of eternal life. That’s because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done.
He said to them, “Go to the village ahead of you. As soon as you get there, you will find a donkey tied up. Her colt will be with her. Untie them and bring them to me.
The women were terrified They bowed down with their faces to the ground Then the men said to them Why do you look for the living among the dead
God sent them to Babylon and even farther.
whose lawless acts are forgiven
Dont you know that to be a friend of the world is to hate God
But she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
But put Gods kingdom first Do what he wants you to do Then all those things will also be given to you
They replied, “Some say John the Baptist. Others say Elijah. Still others say one of the prophets.”
“Jesus of Nazareth,” they said.
“No,” they answered.
The world doesnt know us because it didnt know him
Four of those who came were carrying a man who could not walk.
You will be made rich in every way Then you can always give freely We will take your many gifts to the people who need them And they will give thanks to God
Jesus said, “Let the little children come to me. Don’t keep them away. The kingdom of heaven belongs to people like them.”
And the one who doesnt eat everything must not judge the person who does
They begged him to let those who were sick just touch the edge of his clothes. And all who touched his clothes were healed.
“No,” said Peter. “You will never wash my feet.”
All who follow wisdom prove that wisdom is right.”
Paul knew that some of them were Sadducees and the others were Pharisees So he called out to the members of the Sanhedrin My brothers he said I am a Pharisee I come from a family of Pharisees
Brothers and sisters don’t find fault with one another. If you do, you will be judged. And the Judge is standing at the door!
“How terrible for you Pharisees! You love the most important seats in the synagogues.
The Lord has done it.
Go now and leave your life of sin
You were becoming more and more evil Now give yourselves to be slaves to right living
Paul wanted to appear in front of the crowd
“Yes it is, Lord,” she said. “Even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their owner’s table.”
He told her, “Go. Get your husband and come back.”
In those days the number of believers was growing. The Greek Jews complained about the non-Greek Jews. They said that the widows of the Greek Jews were not being taken care of. They weren’t getting their fair share of food each day.
He asked them again, “Who do you want?”
I have told you before that you have an important place in our hearts.
Jesus said, “My kingdom is not from this world.
Watch out You will be handed over to the local courts You will be whipped in the synagogues
Let their backs be bent forever
They are the angels of the seven churches
Your service is the result of your love.
The Israelites didn’t trip and fall once and for all time, did them?
So they pulled their boats up on shore. Then they left everything and followed him.
doesnt teach these truths
“will mourn because of him.”
He also says,
I need a bigger box.
He came to set free those who were under the authority of the law.
Listen to his voice today
burned.
“Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a trader who was looking for fine pearls.
He has the power to bring everything under his control By his power he will change our earthly bodies They will become like his glorious body
Once more, Jesus visited Cana in Galilee. Cana is where he had turned the water into wine. A royal official was there. His son was sick in bed at Capernaum.
He asked them Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you became believers
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples The time is coming he said when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man But you wont see it
But you dont realize how pitiful and miserable you have become
So put to death anything that comes from sinful desires. Get rid of sexual sins and impure acts. Don’t let your feelings get out of control. Remove from your life all evil desires. Stop always wanting more and more. You might as well be worshiping statues of gods.
But you do not seek the praise that comes from the only God So how can you believe
He is Jesus Christ, the Blameless One.
God didnt choose us to receive his anger He chose us to receive salvation because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done
And the Word was full of grace and truth.
“I don’t judge a person who hears my words but does not obey them.
I went because God showed me what he wanted me to do.
His grace teaches us to say no to godless ways and sinful desires.
He told them, “The harvest is huge, but the workers are few. So ask the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest field.
we should also love one another
Faith in God’s Son Who Became a Human Being
“How terrible it will be for you Pharisees! You give God a tenth of your garden plants, such as mint and rue. But you have forgotten to be fair and to love God. You should have practiced the last things without failing to do the first.
Instead they were serving you when they spoke about the things that you have now heard
Jesus Prays in Gethsemane
They leave a trail of harmful actions.
They were as many as the stars in the sky They were as many as the grains of sand on the seashore No one could count them
What if a woman does not cover her head? She might as well have her hair cut off. But it is shameful for her to cut her hair or shave her head. So she should cover her head.
“But we don’t have the right to put anyone to death,” they complained.
It is not based on anything you have done No one can brag about earning it
We are witnesses of this
Scripture says that God has put everything under his control  It says that everything has been put under him But it is clear that this does not include God himself Thats because God put everything under Christ
So do the disciples of the Pharisees.
What Im about to tell you is true My Father will give you anything you ask for in my name
His bicycle is blue.
In the cases that should be resolved however there is a difference።
There he stayed
He was given a crown.
And you still aren’t ready for it.
We should not commit sexual sins as some of them did In one day  of them died
The wifes body does not belong only to her
Here is my mother Here are my brothers
The smoke of their terrible suffering will rise for ever and ever
The day of Christ’s return is almost here.
No training seems pleasant at the time. In fact, it seems painful. But later on it produces a harvest of godliness and peace. It does this for those who have been trained by it.
We always thank God for all of you We keep on praying for you
We loved you so much
Didn’t you understand when I said, ‘In a little while, you will no longer see me. Then after a little while, you will see me’?
They will cause people to think badly about the way of truth.
Glory belongs to him both now and forever. Amen.
Instead we were like young children when we were with you
But God gives you the gift of eternal life Thats because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done
I have been crucified with Christ.
It is written
I am not going too far in my bragging. I would be going too far if I hadn’t come to where you live. But I did get there with the good news about Christ.
all who travel by ship will stand far away.
The days are coming announces the Lord
Jesus of Nazareth they replied
Their troops are as many as the grains of sand on the seashore.
Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection
Jesus finished saying all these things Then he said to his disciples
I havent let anyone keep me from telling you everything God wants you to do
I have a lot to write to you But I dont want to write with pen and ink
“With unfamiliar languages
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is a child of God And everyone who loves the Father loves his children as well
The crowd commanded them to stop They told them to be quiet But the two men shouted even louder Lord Son of David Have mercy on us
As they all approached Jerusalem, they came to Bethphage. It was on the Mount of Olives. Jesus sent out two disciples.
We know
And they called out in a loud voice Jesus Master Have pity on us
Those who lived through it were terrified
The whole world was amazed and followed the beast.
because I am holy
The next day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee.
Abraham became Isaac’s father.
There were one hundred fifty three of them But even with that many fish the net was not torn
I don't like summer.
“ ‘Go to your people. Say to them,
I accepted the offer.
You will say, “Some branches were broken off so that I could be joined to the tree.”
Love Your Enemies
So whoever opposes the authorities opposes leaders whom God has appointed
There were too many fish in it.
You unbelieving people Jesus replied How long do I have to stay with you How long do I have to put up with you Bring the boy to me
It was the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread. The disciples came to Jesus. They asked, “Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover meal?”
Only if they keep on believing
Is it easier to say to this man, ‘Your sins are forgiven’? Or to say, ‘Get up, take your mat and walk’?
“The number of people from Israel may be like the sand by the sea.
By that one sacrifice he has made perfect forever those who are being made holy
MATTHEW 
He put mud on my eyes the man replied
Command the rich to do what is good.
But The one who brags should brag about what the Lord has done
The people of us are affected by the biggest, the desert, by food breaches, by malaria which most of them find sick።
I tell you, Elijah has come. They have done to him everything they wanted to do. They did it just as it is written about him.”
They claimed to be wise But they made fools of themselves
Jesus answered them, “Didn’t God say in your Law,
They all came together regularly to pray. The women joined them too. So did Jesus’ mother Mary and his brothers?
“Seven,” they replied.
Give freely to poor people to show what is inside you. Then everything will be clean for you.
What if you receive a message that is supposed to have come from us
“David carried out God’s purpose while he lived. Then he died. He was buried with his people. His body rotted away.
Many Samaritans Believe in Jesus
All of them were filled with hope So they ate some food
When they had spoken I was getting ready to write But I heard a voice from heaven say Seal up what the seven thunders have said Do not write it down
As I watched I heard an eagle that was flying high in the air
Jesus answered, “It is written, ‘Worship the Lord your God. He is the only one you should serve.’ ”
Greet those who love us in the faith.
He replied, “The vultures will gather where there is a dead body.”
When the disciples saw this, they became angry. “Why this waste?” they asked.
Finally, let the Lord make you strong. Depend on his mighty power.
This is how the holy women of the past used to make them beautiful. They put their hope in God. And they followed the lead of their own husbands.
The ten horns you saw are ten kings They have not yet received a kingdom But for one hour they will receive authority to rule together with the beast
The child grew up,
Blessed is anyone who does not give up their faith because of me.”
So dont throw away your bold faith It will bring you rich rewards
Is it easier to say to this man Your sins are forgiven Or to say Get up take your mat and walk
I do not fight like a boxer who hits nothing but air
Dont you know what Scripture says God wants the spirit in us to belong only to him God caused this spirit to live in us Dont you think Scripture has a reason for saying this
May God give peace to all of you who believe in Christ.
You should lead holy and godly lives.
We are writing only what you can read and understand.
It causes fighting, harmful talk, and evil distrust.
Hasn’t he come here to take them as prisoners to the chief priests?”
“I am not talking about all of you.
I have been hungry and thirsty
I have told both Jews and Greeks that they must turn away from their sins to God. They must have faith in our Lord Jesus.
They suffered in their bodies for all the wrong things they did.
But your sins were washed away You were made holy You were made right with God
But many who are first will be last And the last will be first
Some of the visitors are Jews. Others have accepted the Jewish faith. Also, Cretans and Arabs are here. We hear all these people speaking about God’s wonders in our own languages!”
But it makes no difference to me what they were.
Prayer
And because you belong to him, you too are being built together. You are being made into a house where God lives through his Spirit.
‘But here is what I have against you.
Dear friends, I really wanted to write to you about the salvation we share. But now I feel I should write and ask you to stand up for the faith. God’s holy people were trusted with it once and for all time.
Then after a little while, you will see me.”
So the blind man called out, “Jesus! Son of David! Have mercy on me!”
The one at the Fathers side has shown us what God is like
Jesus went away a second time. He prayed, “My Father, is it possible for this cup to be taken away? But if I must drink it, may what you want be done.”
They will be wild.
I speak now to those who are not married. I also speak to widows. It is good for you to stay single like me.
I am Jesus the Lord replied I am the one you are opposing
Your faith doesnt mean anything either
God had warned him about things that could not yet be seen Because of his faith Noah showed the world that it was guilty
After this I looked, and there in front of me was a huge crowd of people. They stood in front of the throne and in front of the Lamb. There were so many that no one could count them. They came from every nation, tribe and people. That’s true no matter what language they spoke. They were wearing white robes. In their hands they were holding palm branches.
What we have received is not the spirit of the world We have received the Spirit who is from God The Spirit helps us understand what God has freely given us
Gods promise of enjoying his rest still stands
Tell us they said When will these things happen And what will be the sign that they are all about to come true
It is the message about Jesus Christ
By this time you should be teachers. But in fact, you need someone to teach you all over again. You need even the simple truths of God’s word. You need milk, not solid food.
free and slave,
The disciples were amazed. They asked, “What kind of man is this? Even the winds and the waves obey him!”
James, Peter and John are respected as pillars in the church. They recognized the special grace given to me. So they shook my hand and the hand of Barnabas. They wanted to show they accepted us. They agreed that we should go to the Gentiles. They would go to the Jews.
Let their eyes grow dark so they cant see
We sat down and began to speak to the women who had gathered together
The way he deals with people is more than we can know
All the people who heard Jesus words agreed that Gods way was right Even the tax collectors agreed These people had all been baptized by John
Remember Lot’s wife!
Many will not believe the truth
But Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened.
great city!
I am content whether I have more than enough or not enough
But the one who sent me to baptize with water told me You will see the Spirit come down and remain on someone
Dont be alarmed he said You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene who was crucified But he has risen He is not here See the place where they had put him
I will say it again Dont let anyone think Im a fool But if you do put up with me just as you would put up with a fool Then I can do a little bragging
Mattathias was the son of Semein
Show us which of these two you have chosen.
They said to the woman, “We no longer believe just because of what you said.
So they went their separate ways. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus.
I am sure you have heard that God appointed me to share his grace with you
“But not during the feast,” they said. “The people may stir up trouble.”
he was taken up to paradise
‘Saul! Saul!’ it said. ‘Why are you opposing me?’
When he has done that, the Son also will be under God’s rule. God put everything under the Son.
“Bring them here to me,” he said.
Seven lamps were blazing in front of the throne
I will reward each person for what they have done.
He also knew he had come from God and was returning to God.
People Don’t Agree About Who Jesus Is
A widow lived in that town She came to the judge again and again She kept begging him Make things right for me Someone is treating me badly
I had the understanding of a child.
Barnabas also said that Saul had preached without fear in Jesus name in Damascus
I am not commanding you to do it. But I want to test you. I want to find out if you really love God. I want to compare your love with that of others.
Don’t bother the teacher anymore.
You have hidden these things from wise and educated people.
The truth about God is plain to them. God has made it plain.
Can any of you prove I am guilty of sinning? Am I not telling the truth? Then why don’t you believe me?
Then he went back to Nazareth with them
One day Jesus was praying alone. Only his disciples were with him. He asked them, “Who do the crowds say I am?”
So remember what you have been taught and have heard.
You pretenders! You know how to understand the appearance of the earth and the sky. Why can’t you understand the meaning of what is happening right now?
A deacon must be faithful to his wife He must manage his children and family well
But God kept them from recognizing him
Jesus Feeds the Four Thousand
Many are not circumcised physically,
We know that God does not listen to sinners. He listens to the godly person who does what he wants them to do.
He grabbed the dragon, that old serpent. The serpent is also called the devil, or Satan. The angel put him in chains for one thousend year.
Work because you know that you will finally receive as a reward what the Lord wants you to have. You are slaves of the Lord Christ.
But suppose your eyes can’t see well. Then your body also is full of darkness.
The water of the flood is a picture It is a picture of the baptism that now saves you too
He did not say this on his own because he was high priest at that time
Who can oppose what he wants to do
Shortly before dawn Jesus went out to the disciples He walked on the lake
Then Paul and Barnabas answered them boldly. “We had to speak God’s word to you first,” they said. “But you don’t accept it. You don’t think you are good enough for eternal life. So now we are turning to the Gentiles.
But Martha was busy with all the things that had to be done.
He asked them, “Whose picture is this? And whose words?”
We can’t say it didn’t happen.
Jesus replied to him, “Who is my mother? And who are my brothers?”
The governor read the letter. He asked Paul where he was from.
By these signs, the second beast tricked those who live on the earth.
But they were broken off because they didn’t believe.
Thyatira,
Jesus Is Asked for a Sign
“Yes, Lord,” he answered. “You know that I love you.”
The God of Israel chose our people who lived long ago. He blessed them greatly while they were in Egypt. With his mighty power he led them out of that country.
He himself carried our sins in his body on the cross
Show us who should take the place of Judas as an apostle. He gave up being an apostle to go where he belongs.”
And I will do anything you ask in my name. Then the Father will receive glory from the Son.
One of the teachers of the law came and heard the Sadducees arguing. He noticed that Jesus had given the Sadducees a good answer. So he asked him, “Which is the most important of all the commandments?”
Jesus answered, “People who have had a bath need to wash only their feet. The rest of their body is clean. And you are clean. But not all of you are.”
You heavens
A Lamp on a Stand
Simon, whom Jesus named Peter, and his brother Andrew,James,John,Philip,Bartholomew
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “The harvest is huge. But there are only a few workers.
He is lifted high above the heavens
You dont know what youre asking for Jesus said to them Can you drink the cup of suffering I am going to drink
He told them, ‘You also go and work in my vineyard. I’ll pay you what is right.’
We labored night and day while we preached to you Gods good news We didnt want to cause you any expense
True and False Prophets
My brothers and sisters I am sure that you are full of goodness
He will strengthen you.
Only Luke is with me
I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things.
Giving Freely to the Lords People
Every house is built by someone But God is the builder of everything
I would like to learn just one thing from you
The sheep listen to his voice.
Here is the part of Scripture the official was reading It says
It is an evil thing that never rests It is full of deadly poison
Then Pilate said to them Here is the man
“So don’t be afraid of your enemies. Everything that is secret will be brought out into the open. Everything that is hidden will be uncovered.
It says, ‘The one who shared my bread has turned against me.’
You gain a lot when you live a godly life
you don’t receive it. That’s because you ask for the wrong reason. You want to spend your money on your sinful pleasures.
I will also write my new name on them
Live in a way that shows you have turned away from your sins
You know how I live and what I live for.
No one does anything good,
Keep warm
In hell,“ ‘The worms that eat them do not die.
I face death every day. That’s the truth.
They stare at women who are not their wives
So don’t worship statues of gods, as some of them did.
Her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had been very kind to her They shared her joy
He is the one who died and came to life again He says
When I return, I won’t spare those who sinned earlier.
Greet my dear friend Epenetus He was the first person in Asia Minor to become a believer in Christ
It includes inviting guests into her home
They told you, “In the last days, some people will make fun of the truth. They will follow their own ungodly desires.”
And if Christ has not been raised what we preach doesnt mean anything
He was a Roman commander in the Italian Regiment.
Even Christ did not please himself. It is written, “The bad things people have said about you have been aimed at me also.”
Only two or three prophets are supposed to speak.
The dragon’s tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky. It threw the stars down to earth.
As a result, they are being exposed to hunger and pain during today's time።
Its a good time to suggest that the sun has been pushed away by the youths moment of freedom and darkness beyond its religious message for thick play።
But every spirit that doesn’t agree with this does not belong to God. You have heard that the spirit of the great enemy of Christ is coming. Even now it is already in the world.
But I want you to keep your head no matter what happens
Jesus told his disciples a story. He wanted to show them that they should always pray and not give up.
No one should look out for their own interests Instead they should look out for the interests of others
“The God who saves will come from Mount Zion.
How can Christ and Satan agrees?
So he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore-fig tree. He wanted to see Jesus, who was coming that way.
Another horse came out. It was red like fire.
Just outside the city was the temple of the god Zeus
Jesus looked around at them in anger He was very upset because their hearts were stubborn
Jesus had healed many people So those who were sick were pushing forward to touch him
“Come and see,” said Philip.
The people of us are affected by the biggest the desert by food breaches by malaria which most of them find sick።
But the Spirit of Jesus would not let them.
Peter looked straight at him, and so did John.
Then they asked him What did he do to you
Mary Magdalene was among them. Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, was also there. So was the mother of Zebedee’s sons.
Some believers from Cyprus and Cyrene went to Antioch. There they began to speak to Greeks also. They told them the good news about the Lord Jesus.
One day Jesus was teaching. Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there.
‘I know that you live where Satan has his throne. But you remain faithful to me.
Then an angel of the Lord appeared to Zechariah The angel was standing at the right side of the incense altar
We gave you hope and strength We comforted you We really wanted you to live in a way that is worthy of God He chooses you to enter his glorious kingdom
I am afraid of death.
All the people saw this They began to whisper among themselves They said Jesus has gone to be the guest of a sinner
The evil spirit shook the man wildly Then it came out of him with a scream
I am with you. No one will attack you and harm you. I have many people in this city.”
I am suffering for it. I have even been put in chains like someone who has committed a crime. But God’s word is not held back by chains.
We have been set free because of what Christ has done. Because he bled and died our sins have been forgiven. We have been set free because God’s grace is so rich.
Your own Law says that the witness of two people proves the truth about something
Suddenly there was a powerful earthquake. It shook the prison from top to bottom.
You are waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you eternal life.
Anyone who speaks in a language they had not known before doesnt speak to people They speak only to God
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast. The kingdom of the beast became very dark. People chewed on their tongues because they were suffering so much.
Is that why he says, ‘You can’t come where I am going’?”
Again Jesus called the crowd to him. He said, “Listen to me, everyone. Understand this.
I tell you, it is the ame in heaven. There is joy in heaven over one sinner who turns away from sin.”
Id like to go library
We were also chosen to belong to him God decided to choose us long ago in keeping with his plan He works out everything to fit his plan and purpose
The Lord’s eyes look on godly people, and he blesses them.
Are we beginning to praise ourselves again?  Some people need letters that speak well of them. Do we need those kinds of letters, either to you or from you?
“Here is what the story means. The seed is God’s message.
Here are the words of Jesus who holds the seven stars in his right hand
They will treat you like that because of my name. They do not know the one who sent me.
In fact it was just the opposite When he was in Rome he looked everywhere for me At last he found me
My dear brothers and sisters,
When the Lord Jesus finished speaking to them, he was taken up into heaven. He sat down at the right hand of God.
And pray that we will be saved from sinful
They trip and fall because they do not obey the message.
Some people do not know God’s law when they sin. They will not be judged by the law when they die.
Those who passed by shouted at Jesus and made fun of him. They shook their heads
Then he got down on his knees and prayed.
They were wondering about this. Suddenly two men in clothes as bright as lightning stood beside them.
Some land drinks the rain that falls on it It produces a crop that is useful to those who farm the land That land receives Gods blessing
There were three gates on the south
Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers and the people.
He is praying.
Evil people and pretenders will go from bad to worse They will fool others and others will fool them
He replied I tell you that everyone who has will be given more But here is what will happen to anyone who has nothing Even what they have will be taken away from them
This will show them that they will be destroyed and that you will be saved Thats what God will do
They had tails that could sting people like scorpions do
“Do you refuse to speak to me?” Pilate said. “Don’t you understand? I have the power to set you free or to nail you to a cross.”
We have a great high priest He has gone up into heaven He is Jesus the Son of God So let us hold firmly to what we say we believe
Keep reminding Gods people of these things While God is watching warn them not to argue about words That doesnt have any value It only destroys those who listen
I am happy because you have joined me in spreading the good news. You have done so from the first day until now.
Don’t take part in sexual sins or evil conduct.
Then Jesus took the loaves and gave thanks. He handed out the bread to those who were seated. He gave them as much as they wanted.
The sins of some people are easy to see
Brothers and sisters what should we say then
He wrote the report
And leave the olive oil and the wine alone!”
Then suddenly they will be destroyed. It will happen like birth pains coming on a pregnant woman.
Give thanks no matter what happens. God wants you to thank him because you believe in Christ Jesus.
Turn away from your sins.
God raised us up with Christ He has seated us with him in his heavenly kingdom Thats because we belong to Christ Jesus
And here is what God has promised us He has promised us eternal life
The seventh was made out of chrysolite.
After that he must be set free for a short time
They found witnesses who were willing to tell lies. These liars said, “This fellow never stops speaking against this holy place. He also speaks against the law.
So then the man who marries the virgin does the right thing But the man who doesnt marry her does a better thing
Im not writing to you because you dont know the truth
You unbelieving and evil people Jesus replied How long do I have to stay with you How long do I have to put up with you Bring the boy here to me
Then came James son of Zebedee and his brother John
I give you a new command
Instead we want to be fully dressed with our house in heaven What must die will be swallowed up by life
Friend lend me three loaves of bread
Lofere Lofe is a strong proponent of social connection beyond traditional play።
Right away those who were about to question him left. Even the officer was alarmed. He realized that he had put Paul, a Roman citizen, in chains.
care for their body.
They will come true at the time God has chosen
Then he carried me away in a vision The Spirit took me to a huge high mountain
The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world.
From there we sailed to Rhegium. The next day the south wind came up. The day after that, we reached Puteoli.
Our parents trained us for a little while. They did what they thought was best.
I asked Titus to go to you. And I sent our brother with him. Titus didn’t take advantage of you, did he? Didn’t we walk in the same footsteps by the same Spirit?
But I will also pray with my understanding
But I have written to you very boldly about some things. I wanted to remind you of them again. The grace of God has allowed me
Besides everything else, every day I am concerned about all the churches. It is a very heavy load.
Her sickness had lasted for twelve years
And I hold the keys to Death and Hell.
But she doesnt want to
We have opened our hearts wide to you.
The Pharisees and the teachers of the law began to think, “Who is this fellow who says such an evil thing?
I destroy every claim and every reason that keeps people from knowing God
I don't see why not.
Who takes care of a flock but doesn’t drink any of the milk?
If I am guilty of anything worthy of death, I’m willing to die. But the charges brought against me by these Jews are not true. No one has the right to hand me over to them. I make my appeal to Caesar!”
The way their minds judge them proves this fact
Jesus replied, “The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will hand me over.
He came to set free those who were under the authority of the law He wanted us to be adopted as children with all the rights children have
Once they tried to kill me by throwing stones at me.
I’m being held in chains because of the good news. So I would have liked to keep Onesimus with me. And he could take your place in helping me.
At that time he will not suffer for sin
Then you will know the truth.
And do everything you can to live a quiet life.
So the man got up and stood there.
Suppose the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in other languages.
Give him thanks and
Jesus went on to say, “What can I compare today’s people to?
Warning Against the Teachers of the Law
Along with Titus, we are sending another brother. All the churches praise him for his service in telling the good news.
Suffering for Doing Good
“The son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer fit to be called your son.’
Just as the Father has loved me I have loved you
Could this be the Messiah?”
I know how much you want to help
He tried to keep the governor from becoming a believer
If the people of Israel do not continue in their unbelief, they will again be joined to the tree.
Then why do we each hear them speaking in our own native language
But be encouraged
We sent him so that no one would be upset by times of testing.
So she ran to Simon Peter and another disciple the one Jesus loved She said
They were spending many days there.
We do not now see everything under his control
Right away Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. “Your faith is so small!” he said. “Why did you doubt me?”
authorities
But it was good of you to share in my troubles.
Do good to those who hate you.
even though I am not considered important,From now on all people will call me blessed.
A large crowd gathered together. People came to Jesus from town after town. As they did, he told a story. He said,
Who was God angry with for fourty years Wasnt it with those who sinned They died in the desert
Rhesa was the son of Zerubbabel.
The seed the farmer plants is God’s message.
Catch him.
Coming out of his mouth was a sharp sword with two edges.
He followed Philip everywhere
One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision. “Don’t be afraid,” he said. “Keep on speaking. Don’t be silent.
I saw what they were doing. It was not in line with the truth of the good news.
Tell Archippus,
Each of you should stay as you were when God chose you.
Greet one another with a holy kiss
The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men.
Those who have not heard will know what it all means
Then you will be able to put up with the same suffering we have gone through.
“Enter God’s kingdom through the narrow gate. The gate is large and the road is wide that leads to ruin. Many people go that way.
They had tails that could sting people like scorpions do. And in their tails they had power to hurt people over and over for five months.
To the strength to keep going, add godliness.
I will sing the praises of your name
Turn away from this evil sin of yours. Pray to the Lord. Perhaps he will forgive you for having such a thought in your heart.
Yes Lord they replied
He went to work for someone who lived in that country That person sent the son to the fields to feed the pigs
he said Why have you come
Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea.
“Just as the Father has loved me, I have loved you. Now remain in my love.
They are born only to be caught and destroyed.
I have been appointed to be an apostle.
I want to become rich.
I stand with the Father, who sent me.
And what about you, Capernaum? Will you be lifted up to the heavens?
Anyone whose name was not written in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire
The body that is raised from the dead lasts forever
When I was with you and needed something, I didn’t because you any expense. The believers who came from Macedonia gave me what I needed. I haven’t caused you any expense at all. And I won’t ever do it.
Let their eyes grow dark so they can’t see.
In anger his master handed him over to the jailers He would be punished until he paid back everything he owed
Here are the names of the  apostles
It is Gods power to save everyone who believes
Stop that!
The world is guilty as far as judgment is concerned. That’s because the devil, the prince of this world, has already been judged.
Suppose someone comes to you and preaches about a Jesus different from the Jesus we preached about. Or suppose you receive a spirit different from the Spirit you received before. Or suppose you receive a different message of good news. Suppose it was different from the one you accepted earlier. You put up with those kinds of things easily enough.
When Peter came to Antioch I told him to his face that I was against what he was doing He was clearly wrong
Above his head they placed the written charge against him. It read,
Are you engaged to a woman? Then don’t try to get out of it. Are you free from such a promise? Then don’t look for a wife.
Isaiah says Lord who has believed our message
He brings charges against them in front of our God day and night.
Thats why he has to offer sacrifices for his own sins He must also do it for the sins of the people
He will help you who are troubled And he will also help us
First, God has placed apostles in the church. Second, he has placed prophets in the church. Third, he has placed teachers in the church. Then he has given to the church miracles and gifts of healing. He also has given the gift of helping others and the gift of guiding the church. God also has given the gift of speaking in different kinds of languages.
Christ died and came back to life. He did this to become the Lord of both the dead and the living.
But after the three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered the witnesses.
But the things his brother had done were right.
I want you to know that the things you have been taught are true
Then I heard a loud voice from the temple speaking to the seven angels.
He bent over her and commanded the fever to leave, and it left her.
Hug Abrham
“The stone the builders did not accept
You brag that you know God.
So here is what we can always be certain about
Do you think so little of Gods church that you do this
Then here is what I want you to remember. Anyone who keeps a sinner from going astray will save them from death. God will erase many sins by forgiving them.
Hold on.
But my words will never pass away
Then Simon answered, “Pray to the Lord for me. Pray that nothing you have said will happen to me.”
‘Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches. Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will give that person hidden manna to eat. I will also give each of them a white stone with a new name written on it. Only the one who receives this name will know what it is.’
My brother, we both belong to the Lord. So I wish I could receive some benefit from you.
I was quite annoyed
So we see that they werent able to enter Thats because they didnt believe
The friends here send their greetings.
His pitchfork is in his hand to toss the straw away from his threshing floor.
Then Gamaliel spoke to the Sanhedrin
The grass dries up
He took away the sins of many people.
Mary was very upset because of his words.
Then Herod secretly called for the Wise Men. He found out from them exactly when the star had appeared.
But from now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the mighty God
He was given a large sword.
Suppose nothing had been wrong with that first covenant
When Peter entered the house Cornelius met him As a sign of respect he fell at Peters feet But Peter made him get up Stand up he said I am only a man myself
Or suppose you receive a spirit different from the Spirit you received before
People will be saying that everything is peaceful and safe
Another time Jesus went into the synagogue A man with a weak and twisted hand was there
When Jesus came into Peters house he saw Peters mother-in-law She was lying in bed She had a fever
They stayed there until King Herod died So the words the Lord had spoken through the prophet came true He had said I brought my son out of Egypt
Do you owe respect? Then give it.
Not at all Scripture says Your family line will continue through Isaac
Those you have given me know you have sent me.
Jesus was still teaching in the temple courtyard He cried out Yes you know me
False prophets belong to the world So they speak from the worlds point of view And the world listens to them
The prophet Daniel spoke about the hated thing that destroys Someday you will see it standing in the holy place The reader should understand this
Now, grace and truth come to us through Jesus Christ.
You are so wise! You gladly put up with fools!
Any favor you do must be done because you want to do it, not because you have to.
But the time will come when the groom will be taken away from them. In those days they will go without eating.”
The Lords message rang out from you That was true not only in Macedonia and Achaia
Who can oppose what he wants to do?”
The one who was free when God chose them is now a slave of Christ.
You should come back to your senses and stop sinning.
From the Father every family in heaven and on earth gets its name
I am not writing this to shame you. You are my dear children, and I want to warn you.
I know that you suffer and are poor
Some people come and listen to me and do what I say I will show you what they are like
Those who claim to belong to him must live just as Jesus did.
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief.
The Lords Supper
No one can see him
So through Christ we say Amen We want God to receive glory
“Lord, is it you?” Peter asked. “If it is, tell me to come to you on the water.”
Fish have still another
The Holy Spirit gave me a vision on the Lords Day
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
There they met with the brothers and sisters They told them to be brave Then they left
Jesus defended himself. He said to them, “My Father is always doing his work. He is working right up to this day. I am working too.”
Then you are blessed, because God’s Spirit rests on you. He is the Spirit of glory.
This will happen on the day God appoints Jesus Christ to judge peoples secret thoughts Thats part of my good news
And I serve God along with all who obey the words of this book.
But you have come to Mount Zion You have come to the city of the living God
“I am a virgin.”
When you join yourself to a prostitute, you become one with her in body. Don’t you know this? Scripture says, “The two will become one.”
They knew God. But they didn’t honor him as God.
There is a reward for all your people,
But there is someone coming after me I am not good enough to untie his sandals
After Jesus cried out again in a loud voice he died
Send someone to Joppa to get Simon Peter. He is a guest in the home of another Simon, who works with leather. He lives by the sea.’
I agreed that they should die.
In the same way, the Holy Spirit helps us when we are weak. We don’t know what we should pray for. But the Spirit himself prays for us. He prays through groans too deep for words.
They will all suffer day and night for ever and ever.
So ask the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest field.
Jesus replied, “What I’m about to tell you is true. Everyone who sins is a slave of sin.
Bring your son here.
Very early on the first day of the week, they were on their way to the tomb. It was just after sunrise.
So the angel swung his blade over the earth.
They like to argue more than they should.
He threw it down on the earth
God put into the heart of Titus the same concern I have for you. Thanks should be given to God for this.
And then he said to his disciples, “Let us go back to Judea.”
I want to go with you
Go to that chariot Stay near it
Jesus replied, “They don’t need to go away. You give them something to eat.”
There they continued to preach the good news.
He will pay back trouble to those who give you trouble.
Then he told them Now dip some out Take it to the person in charge of the dinner
Here is what I mean. The law came four hundred thirty years after the promise. But the law does not get rid of God’s covenant and promise. The covenant had already been made by God. So the law does not do away with the promise.
And those God has planned for, he has also appointed to be saved.
Peter was below in the courtyard One of the high priests female servants came by
I tell that one, ‘Come,’ and he comes.
“How long will you wait to judge those who live on the earth?
Those who accepted his message were baptized
But the evil magician named Elymas opposed them. The name Elymas means Magician.
On the first day of the week we met to break bread and eat together. Paul spoke to the people. He kept on talking until midnight because he planned to leave the next day.
So pray that I will be bold as I preach the good news. That’s what I should do.
But suppose you suffer for being a Christian Then dont be ashamed Instead praise God because you are known by the name of Christ
Some teachers of the law were there. They had come down from Jerusalem.  “He is controlled by Beelzebul! He is driving out demons by the power of the prince of demons.”
On another Sabbath day, Jesus went into the synagogue and was teaching.
So let us not be like the others They are asleep
Jesus Is Accused by Teachers of the Law
What Im about to tell you is true Anyone who believes in me will do the works I have been doing
Paul stayed in Corinth for some time Then he left the brothers and sisters and sailed for Syria
They are the kind of worshipers the Father is looking for
The other disciples followed in the boat They were towing the net full of fish The shore was only about one hundred yards away
But none of them received what God had promised
It doesn’t happen only because they believe.
So we know that God loves us.
“the one who is right with God will live by faith.”
Show me your faith that doesnt cause you to do good deeds
God has reserved a place of very black darkness for them forever.
It is for those who believe
anyone who accepts me accepts the one who sent me.”
But the evil magician named Elymas opposed them. The name Elymas means Magician. He tried to keep the governor from becoming a believer.
Salmon was the father of Boaz. Rahab was Boaz’s mother.Boaz was the father of Obed. Ruth was Obed’s mother.Obed was the father of Jesse.
We all have gifts. They differ according to the grace God has given to each of us.
If you believe, you will receive what you ask for when you pray.”
If the people of Israel do not continue in their unbelief they will again be joined to the tree God is able to join them to the tree again
The Jews living in Damascus couldnt believe what was happening Saul proved to them that Jesus is the Messiah
But you live like one who is not
‘Brother Saul, receive your sight!’
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus answered. “It will happen tonight. Before the rooster crows, you will say three times that you don’t know me.”
So encourage one another with the hope you have Build each other up
Live with the highest respect for God
Then those in the boat worshiped Jesus. They said, “You really are the Son of God!”
Crowds even gathered from the towns around Jerusalem. They brought their sick people. They also brought those who were suffering because of evil spirits. All of them were healed.
The stone the builders did not accept
mercy peace.
Tell them, ‘God’s kingdom has come near to you.’
Here is how someone can find out whether my teaching comes from God or from me
At that time Jesus healed many people. They had illnesses, sicknesses and evil spirits.
We can control the whole animal with it.
So get rid of everything that is sinful. Get rid of the evil that is all around us. Don’t be too proud to accept the word that is planted in you. It can save you.
What should we say about these things? What did Abraham, the father of our people, discover about being right with God?
The body that is planted does not last forever.
If the Son brings glory to God, God himself will bring glory to the Son. God will do it at once.
Im sure you will obey So Im writing to you I know you will do even more than I ask
God called this covenant “new.” So he has done away with the first one. And what is out of date and has been done away with will soon disappear.
try very hard to show that God has appointed you to be saved Try hard to show that he has chosen you
No Instead you will say Prepare my supper Get yourself ready Wait on me while I eat and drink Then after that you can eat and drink
Later that night, the boat was in the middle of the Sea of Galilee. Jesus was alone on land.
But put God’s kingdom first. Do what he wants you to do. Then all those things will also be given to you.
To people who are pure, all things are pure. But to those who have twisted minds and don’t believe, nothing is pure. In fact, their minds and their sense of what is right and wrong are twisted.
It was almost time for the Jewish Passover Feast. So Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
Regardless however a situation should not occur in the middle of a war that would prevent innocent civilians from working and eating።
We have put our hope in him. He will continue to save us.
“So you are a king, then!” said Pilate.
He prayed to the God who could save him from death
Live in a way that shows you have turned away from your sins.
Everyone the Father gives me will come to me.
as we also forgive everyone who sins against us.
The two of them will become one.’ They are no longer two, but one.
I hope I can see you soon
A woman from Canaan lived near Tyre and Sidon She came to him and cried out Lord Son of David Have mercy on me A demon controls my daughter She is suffering terribly
You be the judges
All the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John came
“So if anyone tells you, ‘He is a long way out in the desert,’ do not go out there. Or if anyone says, ‘He is deep inside the house,’ do not believe it.
Warn anyone who tries to get believers to separate from one another. Warn that person more than once. After that, have nothing to do with them.
Caesars they replied
Demas has deserted me. He has gone to Thessalonica. He left me because he loved this world.
Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish you have just caught.”
“Lord,” he said, “teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples.”
He said to them You brought me this man You said he was turning the people against the authorities I have questioned him in front of you I have found no basis for your charges against him
I know that feeling
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus answered. “It will happen today, in fact tonight. Before the rooster crows twice, you yourself will say three times that you don’t know me.”
Just then Jesus disciples returned
Then the apostles prayed and placed their hands on them.
The manager had not been honest But the master praised him for being clever The people of this world are clever in dealing with those who are like themselves They are more clever than Gods people
Look at the birds of the air They dont plant or gather crops They dont put away crops in storerooms But your Father who is in heaven feeds them Arent you worth much more than they are
The church follows the lead of Christ. In the same way, wives should follow the lead of their husbands in everything.
Her husband Joseph was faithful to the law But he did not want to put her to shame in public So he planned to divorce her quietly
Many people died from it.
They did not find him So they went back to Jerusalem to look for him
I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven. What you lock on earth will be locked in heaven. What you unlock on earth will be unlocked in heaven.”
But whoever does what God wants them to do lives forever.
One of them struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
But someone will ask, “How are the dead raised?
During that time, the people were waiting for Zechariah to come out of the temple.
And he will be my Son.”
Don’t let anyone think I’m a fool.
Don’t let any evil talk come out of your mouths.
But suppose that married woman sleeps with another man while her husband is still alive. Then she is called a woman who commits adultery. But suppose her husband dies. Then she is free from that law. She is not guilty of adultery if she marries another man.
Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through.
God will judge the person who commits adultery He will judge everyone who commits sexual sins
Peter Says He Does Not Know Jesus
How can they call on him unless they believe in him How can they believe in him unless they hear about him How can they hear about him unless someone preaches to them
The Spirit led him into the desert
We found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia So we went on board and headed out to sea
That land isnt worth anything It is in danger of coming under Gods curse
Paul replied, “Brothers, I didn’t realize he was the high priest. It is written, ‘Do not speak evil about the ruler of your people.’ ”
Try some
Those people had the mark of the beast and worshiped its statue.
Your father Abraham was filled with joy at the thought of seeing my day. He saw it and was glad.”
He has poor eyesight.
The person who was a slave when the Lord chose them is now the Lord’s free person. The one who was free when God chose them is now a slave of Christ.
Follow the way of love
Paul said, “I know that you have been a judge over this nation for quite a few years.
Why not say, “Let’s do evil things so that good things will happen”?
But suppose that slave is evil. Suppose he says to himself, ‘My master is staying away a long time.’
In the same way, we share his weakness. But by God’s power we will live with Christ as we serve you.
A woman has to stay married to her husband as long as he lives.
Suppose they dont forget what theyve heard but they do what the law says Then this person will be blessed in what they do
Carry one anothers heavy loads
So dont judge anything before the appointed time Wait until the Lord returns
You must call him Jesus
Everything God created is good You shouldnt turn anything down
They might want pleasure more than they want Christ Then they would want to get married again
Now I want to talk about some other matters. Brothers and sisters, pray for us. Pray that the Lord’s message will spread quickly. Pray that others will honor it just as you did.
They will kill some
Whose Son Is the Messiah
Why me
The covenant is not based on the written Law of Moses
Their faces looked like human faces
God has chosen to make known to them the glorious riches of that mystery. He has made it known among the Gentiles. And here is what it is. Christ is in you. He is your hope of glory.
Bless those who hurt you
People promise things by someone greater than themselves
At that time a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus.
Put up with one another. Forgive one another if you are holding something against someone. Forgive, just as the Lord forgave you.
I cried and cried. That’s because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside.
Anyone who does not love does not know God because God is love
All of them paid close attention to what he said.
Azor was the father of Zadok.Zadok was the father of Akim.Akim was the father of Elihud.
But food doesn’t bring us close to God. We are no worse if we don’t eat. We are no better if we do eat.
God I thank you that I am not like other people he said
You have spent enough time in the past doing what ungodly people choose to do.
The man got up and took his mat Then he walked away while everyone watched All the people were amazed They praised God and said We have never seen anything like this
The angel who talked with me had a gold measuring rod He used it to measure the city its gates and its walls
Greet Urbanus He works together with me in serving Christ And greet my dear friend Stachys
A third of the sea turned into blood
No! You will go down to the place of the dead.
Satan will be locked away until the onne thousend years are ended
Because you can’t really hear what I say.
Instead, you should thank God for it.
“So write down what you have seen. Write about what is happening now and what will happen later.
The prayer of a godly person is powerful. Things happen because of it.
To others he gives the ability to prophesy.
Brothers and sisters join together in following my example You have us as a model So pay close attention to those who live as we do
All nations will come and worship you.
Here is what it is I am able to preach the good news free of charge And I can do this without using all my rights as a person who preaches the good news
The Jewish leaders did not want to be made unclean They wanted to be able to eat the Passover meal So they did not enter the palace
The head cant say to the feet I dont need you
JOHN 
This is proper for women who claim to worship God.
Command people who are rich in this world not to be proud. Tell them not to put their hope in riches. Wealth is so uncertain. Command those who are rich to put their hope in God. He richly provides us with everything to enjoy.
“I have spoken all these things while I am still with you.
“I tell you,” he replied, “if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out.”
you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters. You are faithful even though they are strangers to you.
Life was in him, and that life was the light for all people.
So how will you believe if I speak about heavenly things
Wear on your feet what will prepare you to tell the good news of peace.
He kept part of the money for himself. Sapphira knew he had kept it. He brought the rest of it and put it down at the apostles’ feet.
I was appointed to announce the good news I was appointed to be an apostle and a teacher
No one can question the truth
The promised Spirit comes by believing in Christ.
Then Peter said, “Ananias, why did you let Satan fill your heart? He made you lie to the Holy Spirit. You have kept some of the money you received for the land.
In the past, he let all nations go their own way.
He said to them Go into all the world Preach the good news to everyone
And anyone making a promise in the name of the temple makes a promise in the name of it and the one who lives in it
I am not saying I will ask the Father instead of you asking him.
The Widow’s Offering
To the Jews I became like a Jew. That was to win the Jews.
Let them trip and fall. Let them get what’s coming to them.
Festus spent eight or ten days in Jerusalem with them. Then he went down to Caesarea.
But they laughed at him
Give glory to God for ever and ever Amen
Here are some commandments to think about.
What Im about to tell you is true Jesus said That poor widow has put in more than all the others
Love never fails.
The promise is for you and your children. It is also for all who are far away.
The crowd was really amazed. They asked, “Aren’t all these people who are speaking Galileans?
You know that I was treated badly
With your blood you bought people for God
You suffered along with people in prison.
What do we find in Scripture
Your gifts meet the needs of the Lord’s people. And that’s not all. Your gifts also cause many people to thank God.
At that moment she fell down at Peter’s feet and died.
It is written
But the other criminal scolded him Dont you have any respect for God he said Remember you are under the same sentence of death
Then Peter began to speak I now realize how true it is that God treats everyone the same he said
Do you think you can buy Gods gift with money
We announce to you what we have seen and heard We do it so you can share life together with us And we share life with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ
In the same way he sprinkled the holy tent with blood He also sprinkled everything that was used in worship there
People like that are not serving Christ our Lord. They are serving only themselves. With smooth talk and with words they don’t mean they fool people who don’t know any better.
Most of the people didnt even know why they were there
He was taken up to heaven in glory.
He is a soldier of Christ together with us.
Those who give themselves over to sexual sins are lost.
Jesus said to them, “What I’m about to tell you is true. Some who are standing here will not die before they see that God’s kingdom has come with power.”
The locusts were not allowed to kill these people But the locusts could hurt them over and over for five months The pain the people suffered was like the sting of a scorpion when it strikes
My dear friends dont try to get even Leave room for God to show his anger
In the same way consider you to be dead as far as sin is concerned Now you believe in Christ Jesus So consider yourselves to be alive as far as God is concerned
So the one who plants and the one who gathers can now be glad together
The twelfth was made out of amethyst.
And since it begins with us what will happen to people who dont obey Gods good news
Thats because Epaphroditus brought me the gifts you sent They are a sweet-smelling offering They are a gift that God accepts He is pleased with it
Watch out for those dogs
Stephen was a man who told other people about you. I stood there when he was killed. I had agreed that he should die. I even guarded the coats of those who were killing him.’
The disciples did not understand any of this Its meaning was hidden from them So they didnt know what Jesus was talking about
Sir they said we remember something that liar said while he was still alive He claimed After three days I will rise again
But what if we say From human authority They were afraid of the people Everyone believed that John really was a prophet
Paul shook the snake off into the fire.
He said, “Lord, they have killed your prophets.
People do these things when trees are green. So what will happen when trees are dry?”
The result of Gods gift is different from the result of Adams sin
About noon, King Agrippa, I was on the road. I saw a light coming from heaven. It was brighter than the sun. It was shining around me and my companions.
The Lord’s message rang out from you. That was true not only in Macedonia and Achaia. Your faith in God has also become known everywhere. So we don’t have to say anything about it.
Jews and Gentiles alike planned to treat Paul and Barnabas badly. Their leaders agreed.
This is because my time has not yet fully come.”
Again and again they hit him on the head with a stick. They spit on him. They fell on their knees and pretended to honor him.
Brothers and sisters, here is a command we give you. We give it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Keep away from every believer who doesn’t want to work and makes trouble. Keep away from any believer who doesn’t live up to the teaching you received from us.
In fact, he even counts every hair on your head! So don’t be afraid.
So the copies of the heavenly things had to be made pure with these sacrifices. But the heavenly things themselves had to be made pure with better sacrifices.
I have seen my people beaten down in Egypt. I have heard their groans. I have come down to set them free. Now come. I will send you back to Egypt.’
What is seed scattered on a path like? The message is planted. The people hear the message. Then Satan comes. He takes away the message that was planted in them.
Then they asked him, “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?”
Then Isaiah boldly speaks about what God says God said
Which of the three do you think was a neighbor to the man who was attacked by robbers
If you remain joined to me and my words remain in you ask for anything you wish And it will be done for you
Instead, the law makes us more aware of our sin.
The voice of the Majestic Glory came to him.
You served the one who rules over the spiritual forces of evil
Jesus was still teaching in the temple courtyard. He cried out, “Yes, you know me. And you know where I am from. I am not here on my own authority. The one who sent me is true. You do not know him.
Were you a slave when God chose you
If the Lord had not cut the time short no one would live But because of Gods chosen people he has shortened it
That’s because Epaphroditus brought me the gifts you sent. They are a sweet-smelling offering. They are a gift that God accepts. He is pleased with it.
There is only one God And there is only one go-between for God and human beings He is the man Christ Jesus
I’m talking about the mystery God showed me. I have already written a little about it.
It is wonderful in our eyes’?
When you judge the law you are not keeping it
We have lived with honor and godly honesty.
He has filled with good things those who are hungry.
Dont believe me unless I do the works of my Father
His voice sounded like rushing waters.
earth and sea and all that is in them.
Today I am on trial because of the hope I have. I believe in what God promised our people of long ago.
It was the good news about how you could be saved.
Dont forget to welcome outsiders
Then what reward do I get Here is what it is I am able to preach the good news free of charge And I can do this without using all my rights as a person who preaches the good news
Sometimes you were treated badly.
But we belong to the day. So let us control ourselves. Let us put on our chest the armor of faith and love. Let us put on the hope of salvation like a helmet.
Some of you are jealous Some of you argue
Many are bragging the way the people of the world do So I will brag like that too
In the same way, when you see all these things happening, you know that the end is near. It is right at the door.
Obey the governors The emperor sends them to punish those who do wrong He also sends them to praise those who do right
On the eighth day they came to have the child circumcised
Then Jesus said to him, “Don’t tell anyone. Go and show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift Moses commanded. It will be a witness to everyone.”
Your daughter is dead the messenger said
At one time you did not obey God But now you have received mercy because Israel did not obey
While we were still sinners Christ died for us
Dear friend,
Before long the grain ripens So the farmer cuts it down because the harvest is ready
The law is not based on faith. In fact, it is just the opposite. It teaches that “the person who does these things will live by them.”
I thank my God every time I remember you.
One day the evil spirit answered them, “I know Jesus.
But I am writing what amounts to a new command.
Are you the Prophet weve been expecting they asked
I’m not writing you a new command. Instead, I’m writing one you have heard before.
Our people must learn to commit themselves to doing what is good
People have to die once.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered brings shame on her head.
Here is what I Paul say to you Dont let yourselves be circumcised If you do Christ wont be of any value to you
But here is the order of events.
They show that what the law requires is written on their hearts. The way their minds judge them proves this fact. Sometimes their thoughts find them guilty. At other times their thoughts find them not guilty.
There are still more of your believing brothers and sisters who will be killed They will be killed just as you were
I rule on a throne like a queen.
The heads of the horses looked like lions heads
the towns around them also did evil things They freely committed sexual sins They committed sins of the worst possible kind
So the people did not agree about who Jesus was
They came and filled both boats so full that they began to sink
A lot of time had passed Sailing had already become dangerous
“they are in front of the throne of God.
I did works among them that no one else did
They went up to him again and again. They kept saying,
But the darkness has not overcome the light.
“These are the true words of God.”
They must not talk back to them.
In their hearts they wished they were back in Egypt
It was added because of human sin And it was supposed to control us until the promised Seed had come
The Lion of the tribe of Judah has won the battle
A time is coming when you will see armies surround Jerusalem Then you will know that it will soon be destroyed
I was sure that all of you would share my joy
Instead, one believer goes to court against another.
Try hard to do what is right. Have faith, love and peace. Do these things together with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart.
We are seeking to be made right with God through Christ As we do what if we find that we who are Jews are also sinners
No one will steal them out of my hand
That is how the great city of Babylon will be thrown down
And hope will never bring us shame. That’s because God’s love has been poured into our hearts. This happened through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
Just then Moses and Elijah appeared in front of them. Moses and Elijah were talking with Jesus.
The twelve gates were made from twelve pearls
During the night Paul had a vision. He saw a man from Macedonia standing and begging him. “Come over to Macedonia!” the man said. “Help us!”
But God comforts those who are sad. He comforted us when Titus came.
I have come to turn“ ‘sons against their fathers.
The trouble you are having has come to test you So dont feel as if something strange were happening to you
Other seed fell among thorns. The thorns grew up with it and crowded out the plants.
You placed on them a crown of glory and honor
You will not suffer from any of her plagues
Some seed fell on rocky ground.
Honor the emperor
On his head are many crowns
Some men brought to him a man who could not walk. He was lying on a mat. Jesus saw that they had faith. So he said to the man, “Don’t lose hope, son. Your sins are forgiven.”
When he saw the man he passed by on the other side
Unlike many people we arent selling Gods word to make money In fact it is just the opposite Because of Christ we speak honestly before God We speak like people God has sent
he brings glory to God
Im full
So why aren’t you treating me the same way now?
You are so excited that it has stirred up most of them to take action
They called the apostles in and had them whipped
Command people who are rich in this world not to be proud
His pitchfork is in his hand to toss the straw away from his threshing floor
“Salt is good. But suppose it loses its saltiness. How can it be made salty again?
As a result, they don’t live the rest of their earthly life for evil human desires. Instead, they live to do what God wants.
I’m writing because you do know it. I’m writing to you because no lie comes from the truth.
they saw the signs he did.
Those who praise themselves are not accepted. Those the Lord praises are accepted.
Jesus replied, “Keep watch! Be careful that you are not fooled. Many will come in my name. They will claim, ‘I am he!’ And they will say, ‘The time is near!’ Do not follow them.
He said to them, “You should not be concerned about times or dates. The Father has set them by his own authority.
Jesus’ mother stood near his cross.
All of us get tripped up in many ways Suppose someone is never wrong in what they say
Then the Pharisees went out and began to make plans with the Herodians They wanted to kill Jesus
The church in Jerusalem heard about this.
May more and more mercy peace and love be given to you
But many who heard the message believed
Warn that person more than once.
She got up right away and began to serve them
God is the only one who cant die He lives in light that no one can get close to No one has seen him No one can see him Honor and power belong to him forever Amen
Jesus answered him Simon I have something to tell you
They were not able to remove the worshiper’s feelings of guilt.
Adultery greed hate and cheating come from a persons heart too So do desires that are not pure and wanting what belongs to others And so do telling lies about others and being proud and being foolish
That person must choose to do what God wants them to do.
Set an example for them in everything.
Jesus no longer moved around openly among the people of Judea. Instead, he went away to an area near the desert.
These will lead people astray.
May no one live in it.’
You know that I suffered greatly.
He chose tewelve of them and made them apostles. Here are their names.
When it was almost evening, the disciples came to him. “There is nothing here,” they said. “It’s already getting late. Send the crowds away. They can go and buy some food in the villages.”
The dragon gave the beast his power, his throne, and great authority.
They long for what their sinful eyes look at
On the fourteenth night the wind was still pushing us across the Adriatic Sea About midnight the sailors had a feeling that they were approaching land
I am not like those who commit adultery.
Because evil will grow most peoples love will grow cold
The second terrible judgment has passed.
Moses writes about how the law could help a person do what God requires He writes The person who does these things will live by them
After we had torn ourselves away from the Ephesian elders we headed out to sea
Night and day she keeps on praying Night and day she asks God for help
Scripture says The one who believes in him will never be put to shame
Jesus went to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. On the Sabbath day he went into the synagogue as he usually did. He stood up to read.
You will not let your holy one rot away.
A husband should satisfy his wife’s needs.
The bread of God is the bread that comes down from heaven.
“I have spent time with you preaching about the kingdom.
-If your hand causes you to sin cut it off It would be better for you to enter Gods kingdom with only one hand than to go into hell with two hands In hell the fire never goes out
the present or the future,
Death, where is your sting?”
Scripture says, ‘I want mercy and not sacrifice.’ You don’t know what those words mean. If you did, you would not bring charges against those who are not guilty.
He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there
That’s because they will fade away like wild flowers.
I often eat chicken
The foundations of the city walls were decorated with every kind of jewel. The first foundation was made out of jasper. The second was made out of sapphire. The third was made out of agate. The fourth was made out of emerald.
I will speak of them by name to my Father and his angels
I don’t have anything certain to write about him to His Majesty. So I have brought him here today.
The members of the church in Babylon send you their greetings.
Five times the Jews gave me thirtynine strokes with a whip
You can tell each tree by its fruitTrue and False Disciples
You must speak words that people understand If you dont no one will know what you are saying
Get Abrham
And the second is like it. ‘Love your neighbor as you love yourself.’
The Son is the shining brightness of God’s glory. He is the exact likeness of God’s being. He uses his powerful word to hold all things together. He provided the way for people to be made pure from sin. Then he sat down at the right hand of the King, the Majesty in heaven.
Whoever eats meat does so to honor the Lord
The law brings Gods anger
Then Jesus went to Capernaum, a town in Galilee.
When I planned all this, was I ready to change my mind for no good reason? No. I don’t make my plans the way the world makes theirs. In the same breath the world says both, “Yes! Yes!” and “No! No!”
Whoever has ears should listen.
You can’t come where I am going.”
The Father has life in himself. He has allowed the Son also to have life in himself.
They asked Where is the child who has been born to be king of the Jews We saw his star when it rose Now we have come to worship him
I was a witness of Christ’s sufferings.
Everyone who has believed will be amazed when they see him This includes you because you believed the witness we gave you
And they weren’t even opposing you.
Husbands
Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes. And suppose a poor man in dirty old clothes also comes in.
“The king came in to see the guests. He noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes.
Stephen Is Arrested
They replied Some say John the Baptist Others say Elijah Still others say one of the prophets
Annas sent him, tied up, to Caiaphas, the high priest.
But we are looked down on
A New Heaven and a New Earth
I, Paul, am writing this greeting with my own hand.
“I am coming to you now. But I say these things while I am still in the world. I say them so that those you gave me can have the same joy that I have.
The Psalms also say
Paul went down and threw himself on the young man He put his arms around him Dont be alarmed he told them Hes alive
Mary answered.
Many people were made sinners because one man did not obey.
He asked them again Who do you want
He often encouraged me
But she kept telling them it was true.
The angel said to me You can trust these words They are true The Lord is the God who gives messages to the prophets He sent his angel to show his servants the things that must soon take place
And the blood of Jesus his Son makes us pure from all sin
Brothers and sisters, here is what I want you to know. The good news I preached does not come from human beings.
But circumcision did not really come from Moses.
It is the same with everyone who is born with the Spirit
Then Jesus asked them, “What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day? Should we do good? Or should we do evil? Should we save life? Or should we kill?” But no one answered.
There was a powerful earthquake. An angel of the Lord came down from heaven. The angel went to the tomb. He rolled back the stone and sat on it.
Each of them should be absolutely sure in their own mind.
So they asked him, “What sign will you give us? What will you do so we can see it and believe you?
I fell to the ground and heard a voice speak to me. ‘Saul! Saul!’ it said. ‘Why are you opposing me?’
In Lystra there sat a man who couldn’t walk. He hadn’t been able to use his feet since the day he was born.
“Remember how it was in the days of Noah. It will be the same when the Son of Man comes.
Jesus looked around He said to his disciples How hard it is for rich people to enter Gods kingdom
When one of them saw that he was healed he came back He praised God in a loud voice
Jesus said to them A prophet is honored everywhere except in his own town He doesnt receive any honor among his relatives or in his own home
He met Abraham who was returning from winning a battle over some kings Melchizedek blessed him
May your kingdom come
Fathers,
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it But whoever loses their life for me will find it
Didnt the land belong to you before it was sold After it was sold you could have used the money as you wished
“Yes, Lord,” they replied.
You are slaves of the Lord Christ.
He said to them, “You brought me this man. You said he was turning the people against the authorities. I have questioned him in front of you. I have found no basis for your charges against him.
Timothy Brings a Good Report
That is how it has been with John the Baptist When he came to you he didnt eat bread or drink wine And you say He has a demon
He was also chosen by the churches to go with us as we bring the offering We are in charge of it We want to honor the Lord himself We want to show how ready we are to help
Then Jesus said to the tree, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again!” And his disciples heard him say it.
‘I warn and correct those I love. So be sincere, and turn away from your sins.
The angel greeted her and said,
They wont forgive others
Look I am coming like a thief
If not, what did you go out to see?
But the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared
They worshiped and served created things.
Circumcision and uncircumcision don’t mean anything.
As soon as I heard the sound of your voice, the baby inside me jumped for joy.
There Julius was kind to Paul He let Paul visit his friends so they could give him what he needed
Here is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit agreeing that Jesus Christ came in a human body belongs to God.
Many people will follow their lead These people will do the same evil things the false teachers do
We accept what people say when they are witnesses
So I say, live by the Holy Spirit’s power.
When they were not accepted, it became possible for the whole world to be brought back to God. So what will happen when they are accepted? It will be like life from the dead.
They dont love their brother or sister whom they have seen So they cant love God whom they havent seen
The women joined them too. So did Jesus’ mother Mary and his brothers?
How terrible for you, great city,
The next day we landed at Sidon.
Jesus said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you.
What should we say then?
Does Christ take sides?
She kissed them and poured perfume on them
“God opposes those who are proud.
But the Jewish leaders stirred up the important women who worshiped God. They also stirred up the men who were leaders in the city. The Jewish leaders tried to get the women and men to attack Paul and Barnabas. They threw Paul and Barnabas out of that area.
It was winter
“Simon, Simon! Satan has asked to sift all of you disciples like wheat.
Every time they didn’t obey, they were punished.
Final Warnings
And if Christ has not been raised, what we preach doesn’t mean anything.
But I know you. I know that you do not have love for God in your hearts.
“What if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him?”
“So then, King Agrippa, I obeyed the vision that appeared from heaven.
Be full of sorrow.
“I have spoken openly to the world,” Jesus replied.
In that way Christ will be the first and most honored among many brothers and sisters
The Father is the only one who knows who the Son is.
All things were made through him. Nothing that has been made was made without him.
One of you says, “I follow Paul.”
Praise to the God Who Gives Comfort
“Be glad, woman,you who have never had children.
It is written The one who gathered a lot didnt have too much
Am I now trying to get people to think well of me
The seed that fell among the thorns is like others who hear the message. But then the worries of this life and the false promises of wealth crowd it out. They keep the message from producing fruit.
Paul replied I am not crazy most excellent Festus
The Jewish Feast of Booths was near. Jesus’ brothers said to him, “Leave Galilee and go to Judea. Then your disciples there will see the works that you do.
It’s true that I haven’t been trained as a speaker. But I do have knowledge. I’ve made that very clear to you in every way.
Weren’t they all the people Moses led out of Egypt?
Those carrying it stood still
Stephen was a man who told other people about you I stood there when he was killed I had agreed that he should die I even guarded the coats of those who were killing him
Mr. Lianeg Sh: They are preparing for the twenty-seventh time university entrance exam።
God our Savior has commanded all these things
try very hard to show that God has appointed you to be saved. Try hard to show that he has chosen you.
They claim to know God.
You blind guides You remove the smallest insect from your food But you swallow a whole camel
But no one would say anything about him openly They were afraid of the leaders
It will be like that with bodies that are raised from the dead. The body that is planted does not last forever. The body that is raised from the dead lasts forever.
They will come in and go out.
But someday we will see clearly. We will see face to face.
All the people were amazed They said Could this be the Son of David
I hope that you will always be able to remember these things after Im gone
Instead, they do what comes naturally to them.
Her parents were amazed
Then the Samaritans came to him and tried to get him to stay with them.
Philadelphia
So the people of today will be punished. They will pay for all the prophets’ blood spilled since the world began.
But not everyone knows this
Words of prophecy are written in this book. Blessed is the person who obeys them.”
And they are very sure about that law But they dont know what they are talking about
Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners
Feel this
the commander asked. “This man is a Roman citizen.”
They are without blame
Moses said nothing about priests who were from the tribe of Judah.
He received living words to pass on to us.
It sounded like the roar of rushing waters
They were burned by the blazing heat. So they spoke evil things against the name of God, who controlled these plagues. But they refused to turn away from their sins. They did not give glory to God.
That land isn’t worth anything. It is in danger of coming under God’s curse.
Then you will be able to know what is best. Then you will be pure and without blame for the day that Christ returns.
I’m sure you will obey. So I’m writing to you. I know you will do even more than I ask.
I serve Christ Jesus
But Jesus came and touched them. “Get up,” he said. “Don’t be afraid.”
The Three Angels
It has just been said
The Jewish leaders did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath day
Everything God created looks forward to the future That will be the time when his children appear in their full and final glory
John had been saying to Herod, “It is against the Law for you to have her as your wife.”
He saved us It wasnt because of the good things we had done
Character produces hope
Our people received the tent from God. Then they brought it with them when they took the land of Canaan. God drove out the nations that were in their way. At that time Joshua was Israel’s leader. The tent remained in the land until David’s time.
How can you possibly not understand I wasnt talking to you about bread But watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees
“Sir,” they said, “we would like to see Jesus.”
Let them trip and fall Let them get whats coming to them
And what he says doesn’t amount to anything.”
How do you feel now?
But when we opened the doors we didnt find anyone inside
At that time Jesus spoke to the crowd. “Am I leading a band of armed men against you?” he asked. “Do you have to come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courtyard teaching. And you didn’t arrest me.
Here is how you can tell the difference between God’s children and the devil’s children.
So they make up stories to take advantage of you.
A third of the trees were burned up.
Dear friend
The Queen of the South will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And she will prove that they are guilty. She came from very far away to listen to Solomon’s wisdom. And now something more important than Solomon is here.
He took her by the hand Then he said to her Talitha koum This means Little girl I say to you get up
It throws him into fits so that he foams at the mouth
They didn’t really belong to us.
I will appoint my two witnesses
Brothers and sisters, I am sure you remember how hard we worked. We labored night and day while we preached to you God’s good news. We didn’t want to cause you any expense.
My God will meet all your needs. He will meet them in keeping with his wonderful riches. These riches come to you because you belong to Christ Jesus.
All of them ate and were satisfied. The disciples picked up  baskets of leftover pieces.
As far as being committed is concerned, I opposed and attacked the church. As far as keeping the law is concerned, I kept it perfectly.
You can tell each tree by its fruit.True and False Disciples
It is as if God were making his appeal through us
But we must run the ship onto the beach of some island
People who are ungodly run after all those things
I came from the Father and entered the world
They did that to make themselves pure and clean Each jar could hold twenty to thirty gallons
God is spirit His worshipers must worship him in the Spirit and in truth
Even the Son of Man did not come to be served. Instead, he came to serve others. He came to give his life as the price for setting many people free.”
Jesus saw his mother there He also saw the disciple he loved standing nearby
“You are controlled by demons,” the crowd answered. “Who is trying to kill you?”
They tried very hard to get Festus to have Paul taken to Jerusalem. They asked for this as a favor. They were planning to hide and attack Paul along the way. They wanted to kill him.
We know that what he says is true.
Jesus allowed it. The evil spirits came out of the man and went into the pigs. There were about two thoused pigs in the herd. The whole herd rushed down the steep bank. They ran into the lake and drowned.
I tell you, I will not drink wine with you again until God’s kingdom comes.”
To those under the law I became like one who was under the law I did this even though I myself am not under the law That was to win those under the law
He was sitting at Jesus’ feet. He was dressed and thinking clearly. All this made the people afraid.
And they come out!”
Do your best to get here before winterEubulus greets you So do Pudens Linus Claudia and all the brothers and sisters
You have known the Holy Scriptures ever since you were a little child. They are able to teach you how to be saved by believing in Christ Jesus.
Some say His letters sound important They are powerful But in person he doesnt seem like much And what he says doesnt amount to anything
Its the same with you You must speak words that people understand If you dont no one will know what you are saying You will just be speaking into the air
The large crowd listened to Jesus with delight
But he came into the world for your sake in these last days.
The number of troops on horseback was two hundred million. I heard how many there were.
The one who obeys God’s commands remains joined to him. And he remains joined to them.
There are many rooms in my Fathers house
“So be sure of this, all you people of Israel. You nailed Jesus to the cross. But God has made him both Lord and Messiah.”
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Smyrna.
Jesus saw that the man had answered wisely He said to him You are not far from Gods kingdom
Mary sat at the Lord’s feet listening to what he said.
The Story of the Workers in the Vineyard
If the Son brings glory to God God himself will bring glory to the Son
The believers who went with Paul took him to Athens. Then they returned with orders that Silas and Timothy were supposed to join him as soon as they could.
At one time you were dead in your sins Your desires controlled by sin were not circumcised But God gave you knew life together with Christ He forgave us all our sins
What we have received is not the spirit of the world We have received the Spirit who is from God
It was about noon the next day. The men were on their journey and were approaching the city. Peter went up on the roof to pray.
Paul Warns Against Worshiping False Gods
But whoever loses their life for me and for the good news will save it
If you love one another, everyone will know you are my disciples.”
And they tremble
When you teach be honest and serious
A lot of time had passed. Sailing had already become dangerous. By now it was after the Day of Atonement, a day of fasting. So Paul gave them a warning.
They told no lies They are without blame
He will guard you from the evil one.
He's bound to forget.
Be watchful and control yourselves Your enemy the devil is like a roaring lion He prowls around looking for someone to swallow up
And whoever does not gather with me scatters
The Gentiles have shared in the Jews spiritual blessings
And don’t give in to fear.
Leave these men alone! Let them go!
Once it was said to them
Now I am on my way to Jerusalem to serve the Lords people there
“You have heard what was said to people who lived long ago. They were told, ‘Do not commit murder.  Anyone who murders will be judged for it.’
But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
In the same way, the tongue is a small part of a person’s body.
The day Jesus made the mud and opened the mans eyes was a Sabbath day
After three days they found him in the temple courtyard He was sitting with the teachers He was listening to them and asking them questions
After many days, the Jews had a meeting. They planned to kill Saul.
When that day comes, you will no longer ask me for anything. What I’m about to tell you is true. My Father will give you anything you ask for in my name.
There are three that are witnesses about Jesus
The Throne in Heaven
And I have written to speak the truth about the true grace of God.
In Scripture it says
They will receive many times as much in this world In the world to come they will receive eternal life
you will live
And the Spirit does not want what the desires controlled by sin delight in.
He is dear to you not only as another human being He is also dear to you as a brother in the Lord
They have only one purpose
A man dressed in fine clothes?
Menna was the son of Mattatha.
The seven days of cleansing were almost over. Some Jews from Asia Minor saw Paul at the temple. They stirred up the whole crowd and grabbed Paul.
And hope will never bring us shame Thats because Gods love has been poured into our hearts This happened through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us
They are pleasing to people too
In fact, it was just the opposite. They recognized the task I had been trusted with. It was the task of preaching the good news to the Gentiles. My task was like Peter’s task. He had been trusted with the task of preaching to the Jews.
The law was given through angels, and a go-between was put in charge of it.
After he said this, he stayed in Galilee.
Then you will have even more joy when Christ returns in glory
Brothers and sisters we are asking you to love one another more and more
But I want you to keep your head no matter what happens. Don’t give up when times are hard. Work to spread the good news. Do everything God has given you to do.
So is the law opposed to Gods promises Certainly not What if a law had been given that could give life Then people could become right with God by obeying the law
If you don’t wake up, I will come like a thief.
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples He said I tell you do not worry Dont worry about your life and what you will eat
He begged Jesus, “Please come. My little daughter is dying. Place your hands on her to heal her. Then she will live.”
So the copies of the heavenly things had to be made pure with these sacrifices
Thats because the Spirit is the truth
And I remain in them
But suppose I drive out demons by the Spirit of God Then the kingdom of God has come to you
We also have a great priest over the house of God.
His feet were like bronze metal glowing in a furnace
Greet those who love us in the faith
Follow my example. I try to please everyone in every way. I’m not looking out for what is good for me.
Come to me all you who are tired and are carrying heavy loads I will give you rest
The angel who spoke to him left Then Cornelius called two of his servants He also called a godly soldier who was one of his attendants
So he was eaten by worms and died
And so you will be witnesses about me.
And suppose you do nothing about what they really need
He said to his attendants, “This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead! That is why he has the power to do miracles.”
So Judas went to Jesus at once Judas said Rabbi And he kissed Jesus
I live because of him.
You were guilty of the blood of all who have been killed on the earth
But I won’t brag more than I should. God himself has given me an opportunity for serving. I will only brag about what I have done with that opportunity. This opportunity for serving also includes you.
While I was with them I guarded them I kept them safe through the name you gave me
Dont obey them only to please them when they are watching Do it because you are slaves of Christ Be sure your heart does what God wants
I warn
Because they tried to do it without faith They tried to be right with God by what they did
Wake up sleeper
But there are also things made out of wood and clay.
I am sick
Listen I am telling you a mystery We will not all die But we will all be changed
Turn left
The glorious brightness of Jesus coming will destroy the man of sin
I tell you, many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see.
Jesus had known from the beginning which of them did not believe
What should I say to you
Paul looked straight at the Sanhedrin
Give thanks to God He always leads us as if we were prisoners in Christs victory parade Through us God spreads the knowledge of Christ everywhere like perfume
Paul answered Im already standing in Caesars court This is where I should go on trial
The believers were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit
They shouted Friends why are you doing this We are only human just like you
And what is seed scattered among thorns like? The people hear the message.
Peter Speaks to the Crowd
Ungodly people are surprised that you no longer join them in what they do They want you to join them in their wild and wasteful living So they say bad things about you
Suppose someone is ashamed of me and my words. The Son of Man will come in his glory and in the glory of the Father and the holy angels. Then he will be ashamed of that person.
We who are alive are always in danger of death because we are serving Jesus.
They talked about this with each other They said He must be saying this because we dont have any bread
Jesus Is Not Accepted in Nazareth
“My children, I will be with you only a little longer.
When your property was taken from you, you accepted it with joy.
The Law and the Prophets were read aloud.
Now it is time for the world to be judged
Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him
Live so that you don’t have to feel you’ve done anything wrong.
So teach what is true.
The thoughts of a person ruled by sin bring death But the mind ruled by the Spirit brings life and peace
False prophets belong to the world. So they speak from the world’s point of view. And the world listens to them.
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast.
You don’t even know what will happen tomorrow.
He looked around at all of them Then he said to the man Stretch out your hand
Im making my appeal to you as one who is an elder together with you
Right away the boys father cried out I do believe Help me overcome my unbelief
Are you jealous? Are you concerned only about getting ahead? Then your life will be a mess. You will be doing all kinds of evil things.
He went with Peter and John into the temple courtyards
The commander came up and arrested Paul. He ordered him to be held with two chains. Then he asked who Paul was and what he had done.
They asked him, “Rabbi, when did you get here?”
The commander came up and arrested Paul.
The same thing happened to the second and third brothers It happened right on down to the seventh brother
This is why we work and try so hard. It’s because we have put our hope in the living God. He is the Savior of all people. Most of all, he is the Savior of those who believe.
And that number
Brothers and sisters
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed. He said to those following him, “What I’m about to tell you is true. In Israel I have not found anyone whose faith is so strong.
Then you will hold on to faith. You will hold on to a good sense of what is right and wrong. Some have not accepted this knowledge of right and wrong. So they have destroyed their faith. They are like a ship that has sunk.
Also, “All who say they believe in the Lord must turn away from evil.”
Jesus answered them, “When you destroy this temple,
The sun turned black like the clothes people wear when theyre sad
“Who are you?” they asked.
Then he said Write this down You can trust these words They are true
The nations will put their hope in him Isaiah –
Don’t put younger widows on that kind of list.
On one of those days Jesus went out to a mountainside to pray
Another angel came out of the temple in heaven. He too had a sharp, curved blade.
Can light and darkness be friends?
After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
The power of sin used to control us The law stirred up sinful desires in us So the things we did resulted in death
he will tell you what is still going to happen.
But no one else is being built up
We have been saying that God accepted Abrahams faith
The church is Christs body and is filled by Christ He fills everything in every way
But a widow who lives for pleasure is dead even while she is still living.
You are going to go blind
You believe in God
We have depended on Gods grace and not on the worlds wisdom
“He has committed crimes,” they replied. “If he hadn’t, we would not have handed him over to you.”
Brothers and sisters, we are not the slave woman’s children. We are the free woman’s children.
While the meal was being prepared Peter had a vision
Then the whole group got up and led Jesus off to Pilate.
So when I come, I will point out what he is doing. He is saying evil things that aren’t true about us. Even this doesn’t satisfy him. So he refuses to welcome other believers. He also keeps others from welcoming them. In fact, he throws them out of the church.
dressed in fine linen purple and bright red
He is a worker and a soldier of Christ together with me. He is also your messenger. You sent him to take care of my needs.
But God turned away from them.
You have made yourselves fat like cattle that will soon be butchered.
They are liars Their worship comes from Satan I will make them come and fall down at your feet
You are receiving the salvation of your souls. This salvation is the final result of your faith.
The secrets of their hearts will be brought out into the open.
So Peter and the other disciple started out for the tomb
But the commander wanted to save Paul’s life. So he kept the soldiers from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and swim to land.
The day of Christs return is almost here
The Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world We have seen it and are witnesses to it
But if I don’t understand what someone is saying, I am a stranger to the person speaking.
I have faith in God It will happen just as he told me
Be still.
When I saw him I fell at his feet as if I were dead
He will increase the results of your good works.
Give to everyone what you owe them Do you owe taxes Then pay them Do you owe anything else to the government Then pay it Do you owe respect Then give it Do you owe honor Then show it
Others tested Jesus by asking for a sign from heaven.
Stop turning my Fathers house into a market
So here is the advice I give to younger widows Get married Have children Take care of your own homes Dont give the enemy the chance to tell lies about you
And remember those who are treated badly as if you yourselves were suffering
I do know one thing.
I am the Beginning and the End.
“The Spirit of the Lord is on me.
It was as clear as crystal. It flowed from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
We are pushed hard from all sides But we are not beaten down
“Go,” he told him. “Wash in the Pool of Siloam.” Siloam means Sent. So the man went and washed. And he came home able to see.
It also belongs to his wife
If this man had not come from God, he could do nothing.”
And the Spirit does not want what the desires controlled by sin delight in
David was the son of Jesse.
Then he brought them out He asked Sirs what must I do to be saved
Philip went down to a city in Samaria. There he preached about the Messiah.
The slave woman gave birth to one of them
Love never fails
I have given you authority to walk all over snakes and scorpions.
I saw a mighty angel calling out in a loud voice.
You cant be saved by believing in anyone else
When they heard this, they didn’t object anymore. They praised God.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
God has made a great many promises They are all Yes because of what Christ has done
Those who belong to the earth are like the one who came from the earth.
In public meetings, he argued strongly against Jews who disagreed with him. He proved from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah.
But they have only been circumcised in their bodies by human hands.
Copy their faith.
We couldnt change his mind So we gave up We said May what the Lord wants to happen be done
There the devil tempted him for fourty days.
When Jesus said this, all those who oppose him were put to shame. But the people were delighted. They loved all the wonderful things he was doing.
Two men Moses and Elijah appeared in shining glory
Three times I was shipwrecked.
Then I heard a loud voice from the temple speaking to the seven angels
So your God has placed you above your companions
Don’t let anyone fool you. “Bad companions make a good person bad.”
You know that at one time you were unbelievers You were somehow drawn away to worship statues of gods that couldnt even speak
But he collected a tenth from Abraham
I wish I could be with you now I wish I could change my tone of voice
And he decided exactly where they should live.
Peter said Explain this to us
Women received back their dead. The dead were raised to life again. There were others who were made to suffer greatly. But they refused to be set free. They did this so that after death they would be raised to an even better life.
under your control.” ’
I don’t say this to judge you.
Jesus answered Can you make the friends of the groom fast while he is with them
In other words Gods children are not just in the family line of Abraham
If you do everything I have just said, you will never trip and fall.
Some of the believers from Caesarea went with us
“Look! I am coming soon!
I left Trophimus sick in Miletus
But the earth helped the woman. It opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had spit out.
Be joyful and glad Your reward in heaven is great In the same way people hurt the prophets who lived long ago
Then we sailed on to Syria We landed at Tyre There our ship was supposed to unload
He went straight into the tomb.
it shouldn’t be this way.
Here is what I’m asking Euodia and Syntyche to do. I’m asking them to work together in the Lord. That’s because they both belong to the Lord.
They know that Gods commands are right They know that those who do evil things should die
He was absolutely sure that God had the power to do what he had promised.
His tewelve disciples were with him.
Seven they replied
He held seven stars in his right hand Coming out of his mouth was a sharp sword with two edges His face was like the sun shining in all its brightness
The Lord has done it
Its truth was shown in how Jesus lived
By doing that they have turned away from the faith
“In just a little while,
After this, Jesus and his disciples went out into the countryside of Judea.
You want what others have
Enoch was the seventh man in the family line of Adam He gave a prophecy about these people He said Look The Lord is coming with thousands and thousands of his holy ones
Death doesn’t control him anymore.
Come and eat the dead bodies of kings, generals, and other mighty people. Eat the bodies of horses and their riders. Eat the bodies of all people, free and slave, great and small.”
Love is patient Love is kind It does not want what belongs to others It does not brag It is not proud
I am talking to you who are not Jews.
Who Is the Most Important Person?
Jesus replied Go back to John Report to him what you hear and see
Be careful of how you live and what you believe.
Things are no longer the way they used to be.”
I will write them on their hearts.
Then Agrippa spoke to Paul Are you trying to talk me into becoming a Christian he said Do you think you can do that in such a short time
The Lord first announced this salvation.
As soon as Jesus was baptized he came up out of the water At that moment heaven was opened Jesus saw the Spirit of God coming down on him like a dove
After he had sent them away he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray Later that night he was there alone
We speak the truth We serve in the power of God We hold the weapons of godliness in the right hand and in the left
Peter traveled around the country He went to visit the Lords people who lived in Lydda
Lightning that comes from the east can be seen in the west. It will be the same when the Son of Man comes.
He often encouraged me.
The free gift of God’s grace makes us right with him. Christ Jesus paid the price to set us free.
We respected them for it.
As you go, preach this message, ‘The kingdom of heaven has come near.’
I owe you ten dollars.
The devil said to him, “If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread.”
Noah was the son of Lamech.
He died.
Suppose I build again what I had destroyed Then I would really be breaking the law
“Teacher,” they asked, “when will these things happen? And what will be the sign that they are about to take place?”
Then they went away, leaving him almost dead.
The sea gave up the dead that were in it.
At Troas we got into a boat. We sailed straight for Samothrace. The next day we went on to Neapolis.
This official had gone to Jerusalem to worship.
To resolve this there is a need to discuss ።
He approached the town gate. Just then, a dead person was being carried out. He was the only son of his mother. She was a widow. A large crowd from the town was with her.
“Come!” Anyone who is thirsty should come.
I am sick.
So they cut the anchors loose and left them in the sea
There may be so-called gods either in heaven or on earth. In fact, there are many “gods” and many “lords.”
In anger his master handed him over to the jailers. He would be punished until he paid back everything he owed.
But now you know God
I don’t want you to have anything to worry about.
After this, Joseph sent for his father Jacob and his whole family. The total number of people was .
And a wife must respect her husband
I heard all of them say
Why is the sky blue
They replied, “Some say John the Baptist. Others say Elijah. Still others say Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”
Don’t you know what Scripture says? God wants the spirit in us to belong only to him. God caused this spirit to live in us. Don’t you think Scripture has a reason for saying this?
You have judged and murdered people who arent guilty And they werent even opposing you
until the day he was taken up to heaven. Before Jesus left, he gave orders to the apostles he had chosen. He did this through the Holy Spirit.
All creatures in heaven, on earth, under the earth, and on the sea were speaking. The whole creation was speaking. I heard all of them say,
Does his love comfort you at all?
No one who does them will receive a share in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Show mercies to those who doubt.
He is a worker and a soldier of Christ together with me He is also your messenger You sent him to take care of my needs
So then what about troublemakers who try to get others to be circumcised I wish they would go the whole way I wish they would cut off everything that marks them as men
My brothers and sisters,
Here is what people who suffer because of Gods plan should do
We found the jail locked up tight they said
Jesus knew what they were thinking.
Then Jesus said to them, “Nation will fight against nation. Kingdom will fight against kingdom.
Those who accepted his message were baptized. About , people joined the believers that day.
When they were in the house again, the disciples asked Jesus about this.
God chose to give us new birth through the message of truth. He wanted us to be the first harvest of his new creation.
But not a hair on your head will be harmed
Until I put your enemies Under your control.” ’
The people went to look for him
Live like this as you look forward to the day of God Living like this will make the day come more quickly
How awful it will be in those days for pregnant women! How awful for nursing mothers!
Her husband Joseph was faithful to the law. But he did not want to put her to shame in public. So he planned to divorce her quietly.
You were running a good race
They could not buy or sell anything unless they had the mark
He became a powerful speaker and a man of action.
Barnabas and Paul strongly disagreed with each other.
The dragon gave the beast his power his throne and great authority
“Be careful,” Jesus said to them. “Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
Do we have hope in Christ only for this life? Then people should pity us more than anyone else.
I already apologized.
You have lived an easy life on earth You have given yourselves everything you wanted You have made yourselves fat like cattle that will soon be butchered
Timothy I am sending you this letter You are my dear son
After this, Jesus appeared to his disciples again. It was by the Sea of Galilee. Here is what happened.
Jesus did nothing until halfway through the feast. Then he went up to the temple courtyard and began to teach.
You are not my people
So God let them go. He allowed them to do what their sinful hearts wanted to. He let them commit sexual sins. They made one another’s bodies impure by what they did.
So Philip started out.
And here is what it is Christ is in you He is your hope of glory
The crooked roads will become straight
Ill pay
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin
All of you put on a spirit free of pride toward one another Put it on as if it were your clothes
I have found that he hasn’t done anything worthy of death.
If our hearts judge us we know that God is greater than our hearts
No prophecy in Scripture ever came from a prophets own understanding of things
And pray that we will be saved from sinful
Then it is veiled to those who are dying
Scripture says
It has now been made known through the coming of our Savior Christ Jesus
Blessed is the person who doesnt feel guilty for what they do
How long do I have to put up with you
Once you were not a people
Some men brought to him a man who could not walk He was lying on a mat Jesus saw that they had faith So he said to the man Dont lose hope son Your sins are forgiven
Instead one believer goes to court against another And this happens in front of unbelievers
He also walks among the seven golden lampstands He says
Then I went to Syria and Cilicia.
Then he spoke to them. “Anyone who welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me,” he said.
What I received I passed on to you. And it is the most important of all. Here is what it is.
I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews He teaches us that God is true He shows us that God will keep the promises he made to the founders of our nation
Finally the right time came. Herod gave a banquet on his birthday. He invited his high officials and military leaders. He also invited the most important men in Galilee.
You werent pleased with them
It teaches that “the person who does these things will live by them.”
If you remain joined to me and my words remain in you, ask for anything you wish. And it will be done for you.
God planned that those he had chosen would become like his Son
I tell you no But unless you turn away from your sins you will all die too
They are proud of their useless ideas Thats because their minds are not guided by the Holy Spirit
It turned into blood like the blood of a dead person
In the inner circle, around the throne, were four living creatures. They were covered with eyes, in front and in back.
Long ago God planned that Jesus would be handed over to you. With the help of evil people, you put Jesus to death. You nailed him to the cross.
One day we were going to the place of prayer. On the way we were met by a female slave. She had a spirit that helped her tell people what was going to happen.
We are not like Moses He used to cover his face with a veil That was to keep the people of Israel from seeing the end of what was passing away
Those who mourn should live as if they did not Those who are happy should live as if they were not Those who buy something should live as if it were not theirs to keep
Have nothing to do with the acts of darkness They dont produce anything good Show what they are really like
People who have done what is evil will rise and be found guilty
Anyone who speaks in other languages builds up only themselves But the person who prophesies builds up the church
I did works among them that no one else did. If I hadn’t, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen those works. And still they have hated both me and my Father.
When I turned I saw seven golden lampstands
We work hard with our own hands When others curse us we bless them When we are attacked we put up with it
Jesus saw his mother there. He also saw the disciple he loved standing nearby.
The cherubim were above the ark. God showed his glory there. The cherubim spread their wings over the place where sin was paid for.
But when they arrest you, don’t worry about what you will say or how you will say it. At that time you will be given the right words to say.
May they make you strong in every good thing you do and say
The time has come.
So if the Son of Man sets you free, you will really be free.
“You look at the bit of sawdust in your friend’s eye. But you pay no attention to the piece of wood in your own eye.
Your love has given me great joy It has encouraged me
He answered The one who planted the good seed is the Son of Man
Suppose you call yourself a Jew You trust in the law You brag that you know God
Here is what people who belong to this world do. They try to satisfy what their sinful desires want to do.
But suppose the servant says to himself My master is taking a long time to come back Suppose that servant begins to beat the other servants both men and women
Dont do that
We know that Scripture is always true.
As soon as Jesus and his disciples got out, people recognized him.
Some people do not know Gods law when they sin They will not be judged by the law when they die
“Then the children don’t have to pay,” Jesus said to him.
He is God over all. May he always be praised!
But even then they will not listen to me
Our words are different from those of the rulers of this world.These rulers are becoming less and less powerful.
The Lamb who was put to death is worthy
But he said to me, “Don’t do that! I serve God, just as you do. I am God’s servant, just like the other prophets. And I serve God along with all who obey the words of this book. Worship God!”
The slave who had received five bags of gold went at once and put his money to work. He earned five bags more.
Training the body has some value.
They were holding back the four winds of the earth.
Christ also suffered once for sins. The one who did what is right suffered for those who don’t do right. He suffered to bring you to God. His body was put to death. But the Holy Spirit brought him back to life.
So they got into a boat and left
After that he appeared to more than  brothers and sisters at the same time Most of them are still living But some have died
Those who have not heard will know what it all means
There will be trouble and
Since this is true arent you able to judge small cases
Some people in Jerusalem were thought to be important.
Come and follow me Jesus said I will send you out to fish for people
Dear friends, since God loved us this much, we should also love one another.
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus answered. “Before Abraham was born, I am!”
“How can this happen?”
After this, Judas from Galilee came along. This was in the days when the Romans made a list of all the people. Judas led a gang of men against the Romans.
Greet each other with a kiss of friendship
‘But here is something I hold against you.
He knows that he tells the truth
Then all the people who lived in the area of the Gerasenes asked Jesus to leave them
Christ has fulfilled everything the law was meant to do So now everyone who believes can be right with God
“ ‘How terrible! How terrible it is for you,
“The spirit has often thrown him into fire or water to kill him. But if you can do anything, take pity on us. Please help us.”
Everyone’s chains came loose.
But Mary stood outside the tomb crying
God has given us eternal life.
The Sadducees say that people will not rise from the dead. They don’t believe there are angels or spirits either. But the Pharisees believe all these things.
Not at all!
Our people received the tent from God. Then they brought it with them when they took the land of Canaan.
Those things lead to death
No training seems pleasant at the time In fact it seems painful But later on it produces a harvest of godliness and peace It does this for those who have been trained by it
About five oclock he went out and found still others standing around He asked them Why have you been standing here all day long doing nothing
There is a place where someone has spoken about this He said
But the crowds learned about it and followed Jesus
Then the Morning Star will rise in your hearts
My suffering joins with and continues the sufferings of Christ I suffer for his body which is the church
And they are still like that today
I saw the seven angels who stand in front of God. Seven trumpets were given to them.
What is hidden is meant to be seen And what is put out of sight is meant to be brought out into the open
The one who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks like someone from the earth.
Then they cried out Now we know you are controlled by a demon
They follow the Lamb wherever he goes.
When you enter a town and are welcomed eat what is given to you
We know that this man really is the Savior of the world
Farmer Tewetu Reta is a resident of the Tsirshmen village of Sahla Seyemt district ።
Right away something like scales fell from Sauls eyes
I keep a female cat
And the world was made through him But the world did not recognize him
Peter Will Say He Does Not Know Jesus
Arent all his sisters with us
I bow in prayer to the Father because of my work among you.
He must be worthy of respect.
So he ordered that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ
Then Jesus said to her Your sins are forgiven
Let the message about Christ live among you like a rich treasure. Teach and correct one another wisely. Teach one another by singing psalms and hymns and songs from the Spirit. Sing to God with thanks in your hearts.
May our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus do this
I also hear about your faith in the Lord Jesus.
All the nations of the earth “will mourn because of him.”
You will know that you are in me, and I am in you.
Jesus finished speaking. Then a Pharisee invited him to eat with him. So Jesus went in and took his place at the table.
Heres what believers who are in low positions in life should be proud of They should be proud that God has given them a high position in the kingdom
The Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus heard about this. They were all overcome with fear.
Has he done anything wrong to you?
They also love to have the places of honor at dinners
Then the seven angels who had the seven trumpets got ready to blow them.
You have come to the church of God’s people. God’s first and only Son is over all things. God’s people share in what belongs to his Son. Their names are written in heaven. You have come to God, who is the Judge of all people. You have come to the spirits of godly people who have been made perfect.
When people heard that voice long ago, they begged it not to say anything more to them.
But when Peter saw the wind, he was afraid. He began to sink. He cried out, “Lord! Save me!”
Im speaking to you who are younger
But God chose you to be his people You are royal priests You are a holy nation
How can you say this while there is a piece of wood in your own eye?
I make my appeal to you brothers and sisters Im asking you to become like me After all I became like you
Her parents were amazed. But Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened.
But even good works that are hard to see can’t stay hidden forever.
God said good things about his offerings.
The moon has another kind
When we bring them to God, we want them to be like Christ.
I leave my peace with you I give my peace to you I do not give it to you as the world does Do not let your hearts be troubled And do not be afraid
Now I am asking you to eat some food. You need it to live.
They brought the apostles to the Sanhedrin
I wasn't alone then.
Peter went outside He broke down and criedThe Guards Make Fun of Jesus
With your blood you bought people for God.
Er was the son of Joshua.
He told them It is written that the Lord said My house will be a house where people can pray  But you have made it a den for robbers
While he was going up, they kept on looking at the sky. Suddenly two men dressed in white clothing stood beside them.
In the beginning the Word was already there The Word was with God and the Word was God
fruitful as you know our Lord Jesus Christ better
He has been punished because most of you decided he should be This punishment is enough
When you are invited into a house stay there until you leave town
Demetrius and the other skilled workers may feel they have been wronged by someone. Let them bring charges. The courts are open. We have our governors.
But the seed on good soil stands for those with an honest and good heart. Those people hear the message. They keep it in their hearts. They remain faithful and produce a good crop.
“What I’m about to tell you is true.
A Tree and Its Fruit
And they will be faithful,
They will be paid back with harm for the harm they have done. Their idea of pleasure is to have wild parties in the middle of the day. They are like dirty spots and stains. They enjoy their sinful pleasures while they eat with you.
But this will happen so that this passage of Scripture will come true
We played the flute for youBut you didnt danceWe sang a funeral songBut you didnt become sad
Someone in the crowd spoke to Jesus.
Some of the natural branches have been broken off. You are a wild olive branch. But you have been joined to the tree with the other branches. Now you enjoy the life-giving sap of the olive tree root.
So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat. They let it drift away.
Then all the bridesmaids woke up and got their lamps ready
But no one laid a hand on him. The time for him to show who he really was had not yet come.
But then the chosen time came. God sent his Son. A woman gave birth to him. He was born under the authority of the law.
What we are is plain to God.
Simon Peter had a sword and pulled it out. He struck the high priest’s slave and cut off his right ear. The slave’s name was Malchus.
Jesus spoke to the people again He said I am the light of the world
The manager said to himself What will I do now My master is taking away my job Im not strong enough to dig And Im too ashamed to beg
His body was put to death.
Brothers and sisters each person is accountable to God So each person should stay as they were when God chose them
The Sign of Jonah
Then he will say to those on his left You are cursed Go away from me into the fire that burns forever It has been prepared for the devil and his angels
We will not all die
They replied, “We have not received any letters from Judea about you.
They dont obey their parents
he ran away naked. He left his clothing behind.
The man who was now free of the demons begged to go with him But Jesus sent him away He said to him
All who have come before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep have not listened to them.
I will pray with my spirit
We were the first to put our hope in Christ We were chosen to bring praise to his glory
“How terrible for you, teachers of the law and Pharisees! You pretenders! You travel everywhere to win one person to your faith. Then you make them twice as much a child of hell as you are.
Jesus Heals Two Blind Men
They said
“I am the Alpha
Your daughter is dead,” the messenger said.
The rain comes down The water rises The winds blow and beat against that house But it does not fall It is built on the rock
Paul and Barnabas prayed and fasted. They placed the elders in the Lord’s care.
They went up to heaven in a cloud Their enemies watched it happen
So are people whose lives are impure
Why do you fight and argue among yourselves?
Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about these things. So he said to them, “Are you asking one another what I meant?
Brothers and sisters, I beg you to accept my word. It tells you to be faithful. Accept my word because I have written to you only a short letter.
I do not accept what a person says. I only talk about what John says so that you can be saved.
Is anyone among you happy Then that person should sing songs of praise
You know that I was treated badly. You know that I suffered greatly. You know what kinds of things happened to me in Antioch, Iconium and Lystra. You know how badly I have been treated. But the Lord saved me from all my troubles.
Finally, the woman died too.
Jesus prayed while he lived on earth. He made his appeal with sincere cries and tears.
They want to be teachers of the law.
That would not make me a fool, because I would be telling the truth.
But I know you I know that you do not have love for God in your hearts
We also have the message of the prophets. This message can be trusted completely. You must pay attention to it. The message is like a light shining in a dark place. It will shine until the day Jesus comes. Then the Morning Star will rise in your hearts.
The statue could kill all who refused to worship it
So he went to her. He took her hand and helped her up. The fever left her. Then she began to serve them.
Rich People and the Kingdom of God
Those who prophesy should control their speaking
It said I have brought glory to my name
Elmadam was the son of Er
It is for those who kill their fathers or mothers. It is for murderers.
The Lamb broke open the third seal Then I heard the third living creature say Come I looked and there in front of me was a black horse Its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand
In the same way, teach the older women to lead a holy life. They must not tell lies about others.
So I’m asking you to tell him again that you still love him.
He remains a priest forever. In this way, he is like the Son of God.
‘Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will give that person the right to sit with me on my throne. In the same way, I had victory. Then I sat down with my Father on his throne.
You can be sure that people like this are twisted and sinful. Their own actions judge them.
But all those who knew Jesus stood not very far away watching these things They included the women who had followed him from Galilee
Then people will hand you over to be treated badly and killed All nations will hate you because of me
wild living.
Then Jesus came to them He said All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me
Melchizedek has no father or mother.
Herod had John’s head cut off in the prison.
He said to them, “I have really looked forward to eating this Passover meal with you. I wanted to do this before I suffer.
You will say Some branches were broken off so that I could be joined to the tree
Meanwhile he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast Many people saw the signs he was doing And they believed in his name
Listen to the Word and Do What It Says
The people of the island were unusually kind. It was raining and cold.
They wanted to find out what he would like to name the child.
Jesus and his disciples sailed to the area of the Gerasenes across the lake from Galilee.
Around the throne was a rainbow shining like an emerald
Then Jesus healed him and gave him back to his father.
Then a mighty angel picked up a huge rock It was the size of a large millstone He threw it into the sea
A wife must not leave her husband
They knew that all the people were praising God for what had happened.
In Egypt the number of our people grew and grew
Why question me?
The next day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, “Follow me.”
You have not said no to me.
If our hearts judge us, we know that God is greater than our hearts. And he knows everything.
He has given us his Holy Spirit.
But the other criminal scolded him. “Don’t you have any respect for God?” he said. “Remember, you are under the same sentence of death.
Then Jesus asked What is Gods kingdom like What can I compare it to
“He accepts people from every nation. He accepts anyone who has respect for him and does what is right.
The Lord will help you understand what all of it means
should we destroy it?”
Once you were slaves of sin. At that time right living did not control you.
Hug Abrham
John’s disciples told him about all these things.
Jesus said to them You will certainly drink from my cup But it is not for me to say who will sit at my right or left hand These places belong to those my Father has prepared them for
Jesus who is called Justus also sends greetings They are the only Jews who have worked together with me for Gods kingdom They have been a comfort to me
Then I saw a second beast. This one came out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb. But it spoke like a dragon.
Eubulus greets you So do Pudens Linus Claudia and all the brothers and sisters
Give him honor and glory for ever and ever Amen
Judah was the son of Joseph.
What will the owner of the vineyard do then He will come and kill those renters He will give the vineyard to others
Just then, a man came up to Jesus. He asked, “Teacher, what good thing must I do to receive eternal life?”
He said this while he was teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum.
I appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit that will last
May the Lord Show mercy to all who live in the house of Onesiphorus
Women received back their dead The dead were raised to life again
So I am using an everyday example to help you understand. You used to give yourselves to be slaves to unclean living.
Jesus also did many other things
But he said to me Dont do that I serve God just as you do I am Gods servant just like the other prophets And I serve God along with all who obey the words of this book Worship God
You will find that a prophet does not come out of Galilee.”
When it was almost evening the disciples came to him There is nothing here they said Its already getting late Send the crowds away They can go and buy some food in the villages
After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit. They were bold when they spoke God’s word.
Satan, who brings charges against our brothers and sisters,has been thrown down.
You think you know so much more than the people you teach.
When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I had the understanding of a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me.
Barabbas had taken part in an armed struggle against the country’s rulers.
No one who wants to be well known does things in secret.
But it will not be like that when the dead rise. Those who are considered worthy to take part in the world to come won’t get married. And their parents won’t give them to be married.
And suppose the one inside answers, ‘Don’t bother me.
Don’t bring false charges against people.
Johns Disciples Follow Jesus
You also are like living stones As you come to Christ you are being built into a house for worship There you will be holy priests
What Im about to tell you is true Some who are standing here will not die before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom
The number of men who ate was  Women and children also ate
But when I had eaten it it became sour in my stomach
They must keep their lips from telling lies.
So we will grow up in every way to become the body of Christ
Melchizedek was the king of Salem.
I have not yet received all these things I have not yet reached my goal Christ Jesus took hold of me so that I could reach that goal So I keep pushing myself forward to reach it
There were seven brothers The first one married a woman He died without leaving any children
Jesus heard what had happened to John. He wanted to be alone. So he went in a boat to a quiet place. The crowds heard about this. They followed him on foot from the towns.
The Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus heard about this They were all overcome with fear
And where the Spirit of the Lord is freedom is also there
That means one person And that one person is Christ
Simon Peter and Thomas, who was also called Didymus, were there together. Nathanael from Cana in Galilee and the sons of Zebedee were with them. So were two other disciples.
There he talked both with Jews and with Greeks who worshiped God
The commanding officer took the young man by the hand. He spoke to him in private. “What do you want to tell me?” the officer asked.
Jesus went through all the towns and villages. He taught in their synagogues. He preached the good news of the kingdom. And he healed every illness and sickness.
Then they gave him wine mixed with spices. But he did not take it.
They wrote to the believers there They asked them to welcome him
I remember seeing him.
wild living
Christ is the living Stone.
When he arrived and saw what the grace of God had done, he was glad. He told them all to remain true to the Lord with all their hearts.
Her spirit returned, and right away she stood up.
The group brought them to the apostles
The believers tried to keep Paul from going on to Jerusalem. They were led by the Holy Spirit to do this.
Love one another
You can count on it.
This must be the Prophet who is supposed to come into the world
Suppose someone sees a brother or sister in need and is able to help them And suppose that person doesnt take pity on these needy people Then how can the love of God be in that person
They can’t prove to you any of the charges they are making against me.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered brings shame on her head. It is the same as having her head shaved.
Their blossoms fall.
In Damascus the governor who served under King Aretas had their city guarded. He wanted to arrest me.
Then in a vision the angel carried me away to a desert.
They will not come into the light. They are afraid that what they do will be seen.
There is one Lord one faith and one baptism
A slave has no lasting place in the family.
The disciples James and John saw this. They asked, “Lord, do you want us to call down fire from heaven to destroy them?”
soul
They saw him walking on the lake and were terrified. “It’s a ghost!” they said. And they cried out in fear.
That belief and understanding lead to the hope of eternal life.
So Paul asked Then what baptism did you receive
Let their backs be bent forever.”
If he comes to you, welcome him.
your ways are true and fair
He chose us to receive salvation because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done
How lovely!
But Gods solid foundation stands firm Here is the message written on it
After this, Jesus went down to Capernaum. His mother and brothers and disciples went with him.
Israel’s army had faith. So the walls of Jericho fell down. It happened after they had marched around the city for seven days.
Before faith in Christ came we were guarded by the law We were locked up until this faith was made known
On the night the Lord Jesus was handed over to his enemies, he took bread.
In the same way deacons must be worthy of respect They must be honest and true They must not drink too much wine They must not try to get money by cheating people
It was the same with the third one
With your heart you believe and are made right with God
My dear brothers and sisters dont let anyone fool you
They tell about how you are waiting for his Son to come from heaven. God raised him from the dead. He is Jesus. He saves us from God’s anger, and his anger is sure to come.
The man who was now free of the demons begged to go with him. But Jesus sent him away. He said to him,
He will gather the wheat into his barn.
At last we came to Rome
I will strike her children dead.
God has found everyone guilty of not obeying him So now he can have mercy on everyone
And he has sent me to announce the year when he will set his people free
You need even the simple truths of Gods word You need milk not solid food
Let their backs be bent forever.”
So get rid of everything that is sinful Get rid of the evil that is all around us
The leaders warned them again. Then they let them go. They couldn’t decide how to punish Peter and John.
He said, “I am not.”
He did away with the shadow of the good things that were coming
It comes from faith that is honest and true
Believers at Corinth
They will make war against the Lamb
The Eye Is the Lamp of the Body
Tell them not to speak evil things against anyone. Remind them to live in peace. They must consider the needs of others. They must always be gentle toward everyone.
The Father raises the dead and gives them life. In the same way, the Son gives life to anyone he wants to.
But the people paid no attention One went away to his field Another went away to his business
The reason my Father loves me is that I give up my life. But I will take it back again.
Suppose someone wants to love life
‘Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin.
This is the way you planned it.”
He went to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard. He talked with them about how he could hand Jesus over to them.
Did he becomes right with God because of something he did? If so, he could brag about it. But he couldn’t brag to God.
What if they had been thinking of the country they had left Then they could have returned to it
I don’t understand what I do. I don’t do what I want to do. Instead, I do what I hate to do.
all the believers gathered in one place
Or suppose you receive a spirit different from the Spirit you received before.
They were amazed at his teaching because his words had authority
There is one body but it has many parts But all its many parts make up one body It is the same with Christ
That day was the Jewish Preparation Day,
They want what belongs to other people. They fight and cheat. They hate others. They say mean things about other people.
But their minds were made stubborn. To this day, the same veil remains when the old covenant is read. The veil has not been removed. Only faith in Christ can take it away.
The Jews of Corinth got together and attacked Paul
Our Lord poured out more and more of his grace on me Along with it came faith and love from Christ Jesus
They are turning their back on God This same God gives you his Holy Spirit
Enosh was the son of Seth
The Lord turned and looked right at Peter Then Peter remembered what the Lord had spoken to him The rooster will crow today Jesus had said Before it does you will say three times that you dont know me
But the things that come out of a persons mouth come from the heart Those are the things that make someone unclean
But the heavenly things themselves had to be made pure with better sacrifices
The Holy Spirit told me not to let anything keep me from going with them.
The explanation here is that twenty five up to thirty Birr is paid to unload or load one quintal load from a car
“What did Moses command you?” he replied.
The Sabbath day ended Mary Magdalene Mary the mother of James and Salome bought spices They were going to use them for Jesus body
Peter went down and spoke to the men. “I’m the one you’re looking for,”
Then he said to all of them
I came from the Father and entered the world. Now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father.”
God was with him
If I were, I would not be serving Christ.
The Israelites Who Are Faithful
Instead you welcomed me as if I were an angel of God You welcomed me as if I were Christ Jesus himself
How much more should we be trained by the Father of spirits and live
You know the directions we gave you They were given by the authority of the Lord Jesus
If possible live in peace with everyone Do that as much as you can
I was moving ahead in my Jewish way of life I went beyond many of my people who were my own age I held firmly to the teachings passed down by my people
And you will share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ
The person without the Spirit doesn’t accept the things that come from the Spirit of God.
Suppose anyone thinks they are a prophet.
For me life finds all its meaning in Christ Death also has its benefits
You will always have the poor among you. But you won’t always have me.”
When it grew, the plants dried up because they had no water.
There is only one Lawgiver and Judge
There he reported the date when the days of cleansing would end. At that time the proper offering would be made for each of them.
The weapons I fight with are not the weapons the world uses In fact it is just the opposite My weapons have the power of God to destroy the camps of the enemy
The soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus. Then they broke the legs of the other man.
They arent connected anymore to the head who is Christ But the whole body grows from the head The muscles and tendons hold the body together And God causes it to grow
Does faith makes the law useless Not at all We agree with the law
Early in the morning the judges sent their officers to the jailer. They ordered him, “Let those men go.”
God began a good work in you.
And if Satan fights against himself, and his helpers are divided, he can’t stand. That is the end of him.
Earthly bodies have another.
They took him to the edge of the hill on which the town was built. They planned to throw him off the cliff.
He is the one who watches over your souls.
Then the angel spoke to me.
When it was time to leave we continued on our way
The kingdom of heaven belongs to them.
In the same way, only the Spirit of God knows God’s thoughts.
The world and its evil desires are passing away. But whoever does what God wants them to do lives forever.
I wrote to you for another special reason I wanted to see if you could stand the test I wanted to see if you could obey everything asked of you
They said to Jesus, “Teacher, this woman was caught sleeping with a man who was not her husband.
When you join yourself to a prostitute you become one with her in body Dont you know this Scripture says The two will become one
True teaching agrees with the good news about the glory of the blessed God He trusted me with that good news
I am a stranger here
When these desires are allowed to remain, they lead to sin. And when sin is allowed to remain and grow, it leads to death.
They found witnesses who were willing to tell lies.
They have been under a sentence of death for a long time
But I ask
God has sent him.
Greet one another with a holy kiss.
Dont bring false charges against people
Be full of sorrow Cry and weep Change your laughter to mourning Change your joy to sadness
Large crowds came to him. They brought blind people and those who could not walk. They also brought disabled people, those who could not speak, and many others. They laid them at his feet, and he healed them.
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus replied. “Has anyone left home or family or fields for me and the good news?
But the people there did not welcome Jesus That was because he was heading for Jerusalem
But God has helped me to this day.
Those who live like that are dragged down by what they do. They are destroyed and die.
Whoever thinks that one day is special does so to honor the Lord. Whoever eats meat does so to honor the Lord. They give thanks to God. And whoever doesn’t eat meat does so to honor the Lord. They also give thanks to God.
Jesus gave strict orders not to let anyone know what had happened. And he told them to give her something to eat.
The next day John was there again with two of his disciples
The third was made out of agate
But someone may consider a thing to be “unclean.” If they do, it is “unclean” for them.
“What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. They will not be judged. They have crossed over from death to life.
King of the nations,
Make sure that you don’t forget what you have heard from the beginning. Then you will remain joined to the Son and to the Father.
Then Jesus went up on a mountainside.
by doing these things, remain in God’s love as you wait.
Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe
The day Jesus made the mud and opened the man’s eyes was a Sabbath day.
Jesus answered If you want to be perfect go and sell everything you have Give the money to those who are poor You will have treasure in heaven Then come and follow me
When he comes, he will prove that the world’s people are guilty. He will prove their guilt concerning sin and godliness and judgment.
The eye can’t say to the hand, “I don’t need you!”
I have already said it Now I will say it again Suppose someone preaches a good news that is different from what you accepted That person should be cursed by God
In that very place they will be called children of the living God
says the Lord who rules over all.”
Peter went with them. When he arrived, he was taken upstairs to the room.
There he found a disabled man named Aeneas For eight years the man had spent most of his time in bed
But each person’s work will be shown for what it is.
The way he judges is true and fair.
So Paul stayed in Corinth for a year and a half He taught them Gods word
So did his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
While Pilate was sitting on the judge’s seat, his wife sent him a message. It said, “Don’t have anything to do with that man. He is not guilty. I have suffered a great deal in a dream today because of him.”
I will show him how much he must suffer for me.”
The Pharisees said to Jesus Look It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day Why are your disciples doing it
Stop complaining among yourselves Jesus answered
Now get up and go into the city
Paul’s Work for God in Thessalonica
He is a witness to what he has seen and heard.
He must not get angry easily. He must not get drunk. He must not push people around. He must not try to get money by cheating people.
At all times, pray by the power of the Spirit. Pray all kinds of prayers. Be watchful, so that you can pray. Always keep on praying for all the Lord’s people.
Go Tell his disciples and Peter He is going ahead of you into Galilee There you will see him It will be just as he told you
Then he added,
Then I will know that you remain strong together in the one Spirit.
I dont want to bother you But would you be kind enough to listen to us for a short time
The sky rolled back like a scroll Every mountain and island was moved out of its place
In a loud voice he spoke to the crowd. “My fellow Jews,” he said, “let me explain this to you. All of you who live in Jerusalem, listen carefully to what I say.
I pray that you may become like me, except for these chains.”
They must not let wine control them. Instead, they must teach what is good.
My jealousy for you comes from God himself. I promised to give you to only one husband. That husband is Christ. I wanted to be able to give you to him as if you were a pure virgin.
Why do you stare at us? It’s not as if we’ve made this man walk by our own power or godliness.
“Martha, Martha,” the Lord answered. “You are worried and upset about many things.
Some people plant to please their desires controlled by sin From these desires they will harvest death
I will use people who are not a nation to make you jealous
Then the devil took Jesus to the holy city He had him stand on the highest point of the temple
He grabbed the dragon, that old serpent.
Jesus turned and saw her Dear woman dont give up hope he said Your faith has healed you The woman was healed at that moment
They were holding back the four winds of the earth
Can anyone ever teach him
birds, reptiles
You should keep the marriage bed pure
Suppose you start building and are not able to finish. Then everyone who sees what you have done will laugh at you.
“What I’m about to tell you is true. Suppose someone says to this mountain, ‘Go and throw yourself into the sea.’ They must not doubt in their heart. They must believe that what they say will happen. Then it will be done for them.
He rushed in, shaking with fear. He fell down in front of Paul and Silas.
Brothers and sisters here is a command we give you
But what if they won’t listen to you? Then take one or two others with you. Scripture says, ‘Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses.’
You know how badly I have been treated.
“You unbelieving and evil people!” Jesus replied. “How long do I have to stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you?” Then he said to the man, “Bring your son here.”
All of this proves that when God judges he is fair So you will be considered worthy to enter Gods kingdom You are suffering for his kingdom
Then Jesus said to him, “Follow me!”
A person is not a Jew if they are a Jew only on the outside. And circumcision is more than just something done to the outside of a man’s body.
The perfume could have been sold at a high price The money could have been given to poor people
Again he said he was not With a curse he said I dont know the man
don’t worry about your body and what you will wear.
He promised to save us from our enemies.Then we could serve him without fear.
A new system was instituted that students over the age of twenty five could not be tested።
When they did, they could not pull the net into the boat.
This made the Jews ask, “Will he kill himself?
God rested from his work. Those who enjoy God’s rest also rest from their works.
He will do this because of his Spirit who lives in you.
Three Hallelujahs for the Fall of Babylon!
The only thing they have coming to them is death Their stomach is their god They brag about what they should be ashamed of They think only about earthly things
This is the beginning of the good news about Jesus the Messiah, the Son of God.
So he circumcised Timothy because of the Jews who lived in that area.
And he gave her his promise. He said to her, “Anything you ask for I will give you. I’ll give you up to half my kingdom.”
God gave us his Spirit
I’m not saying this because I need anything.
You go and tell others about God’s kingdom.”
Gods power has given us everything we need to lead a godly life
Let the peace that Christ gives rule in your hearts As parts of one body you were appointed to live in peace
Because I live you will live also
By doing that they have turned away from the faith.
“Try very hard to enter through the narrow door. I tell you, many will try to enter and will not be able to.
But the commandment gave sin an opportunity Sin caused me to want all kinds of things that belong to others A person cant sin by breaking a law if that law doesnt exist
“Do not seal up the words of the prophecy in this book. These things are about to happen.
I am doing the works the Father gave me to finish
All the believers were together. They shared everything they had.
Not all earthly creatures are the same.
They replied Some say John the Baptist Others say Elijah Still others say that one of the prophets of long ago has come back to life
That’s why even the first covenant was not put into effect without the spilling of blood.
Later I broke seven loaves for the four thousend How many baskets of pieces did you pick up
That’s why I have often been kept from coming to you.
This saying is true. So give a strong warning to people who refuse to obey God. Then they will understand the faith correctly.
That’s because you know that those of us
It was cold. The slaves and officials stood around a fire. They had made it to keep warm. Peter was also standing with them. He was warming himself.
“Lord God who rules over all,
What do you have to say about him they asked It was your eyes he opened
But woman is the glory of man
A Woman Pours Perfume on Jesus
My son the father said you are always with me Everything I have is yours
“Come,” Jesus said.
And what is eternal life? It is knowing you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.
The Lord has given his word and made a promise
Without faith it is impossible to please God. Those who come to God must believe that he exists. And they must believe that he rewards those who look to him.
They took John Mark with them
You know what kinds of things happened to me in Antioch
You think these people are drunk
But I want you to continue to follow what you have learned and are sure about. You know the people you learned it from.
He must become more important.
I mean from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah. He was killed between the altar and the temple. Yes, I tell you, the people of today will be punished for all these things.
“But the renters grabbed his slaves. They beat one of them. They killed another. They threw stones at the third to kill him.
He knew the Scriptures very well
In a loud voice she called out,
She was pregnant. She cried out in pain because she was about to have a baby.
It does not obey God’s law.
But the commander wanted to save Pauls life So he kept the soldiers from carrying out their plan
He shows us that God will keep the promises he made to the founders of our nation
When the Lord saw her he felt sorry for her So he said Dont cry
He promised the good news long ago. He announced it through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures.
Once you were not a people.
Will women be saved by having children?
Just hold on to what you have until I come.
He found one that was very valuable So he went away and sold everything he had And he bought that pearl
The voice said, “Write on a scroll what you see. Send it to the seven churches in Asia Minor. They are Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea.”
Jesus replied, “What I’m about to tell you is true. No one can see God’s kingdom unless they are born again.”
If you love one another, everyone will know you are my disciples.”
I really am unlucky!
It is sharper than any sword that has two edges
Out of the temple came a loud voice from the throne
Many of the Jews who had come to visit Mary saw what Jesus did. So they believed in him.
The Story of the Great Banquet
But you do not belong to the world. I have chosen you out of the world.
Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia Then Paul spent all his time preaching He was a witness to the Jews that Jesus was the Messiah
No one should look out for their own interests. Instead, they should look out for the interests of others.
Facing All Kinds of Trouble
After he said this, he stayed in Galilee.
So why do you act as if you still belong to the world Here are the rules you follow
A priest happened to be going down that same road
They might understand with their hearts.
Nation will fight against nation. Kingdom will fight against kingdom. People will go hungry. There will be earthquakes in many places.
Then Jesus called in a loud voice. He said, “Lazarus, come out!”
But all those who knew Jesus stood not very far away, watching these things. They included the women who had followed him from Galilee.
We are no better if we do eat.
Work to spread the good news
There were seven brothers The first one got married He died without leaving any children
So faith comes from hearing the message And the message that is heard is the message about Christ
While he was speaking a cloud appeared and covered them
If you are looking for me, then let these men go.”
They said this because Paul was preaching the good news about Jesus.
And I am the worst sinner of all
And Abraham is also the father of those who are circumcised and believe
And again he says,
Dont do anything that causes another person to trip and fall It doesnt matter if that person is a Jew or a Greek or a member of Gods church
Instead, be humble.
Many Gentiles who faithfully worshiped the God of the Jews did the same Paul and Barnabas talked with them They tried to get them to keep living in Gods grace
And they accepted them.
I’ll pay it back. I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand. I won’t even mention that you owe me your life.
Suppose a person claims to have faith but doesnt act on their faith My brothers and sisters can this kind of faith save them
As Jesus went on from there he saw a man named Matthew He was sitting at the tax collectors booth Follow me Jesus told him Matthew got up and followed him
They don’t obey their parents.
You who want to be under the authority of the law
Jesus Teaches at the Feast
If he weren’t, how could he judge the world?
Jesus said Do not hold on to me I have not yet ascended to the Father
The tongue is also a fire. The tongue is the most evil part of the body. It makes the whole body impure. It sets a person’s whole way of life on fire. And the tongue itself is set on fire by hell.
The one in authority serves God for your good
Because of this, many of the Berean Jews believed. A number of important Greek women also became believers. And so did many Greek men.
They began shouting, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”
Do you want me to set ‘the king of the Jews’ free?”
Then Jesus said to them The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath day
When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me.
The unbelieving husband has been made holy through his wife.
And here is something you can be just as sure of. I take pride in what Christ Jesus our Lord has done for you through my work.
Philip was seen next at Azotus.
It could have been sold for more than a years pay The money could have been given to poor people So they found fault with the woman
It was time for him to go to the Father
What did he mean when he said, ‘You will look for me,
Thats because fear has to do with being punished
But with loud shouts they kept calling for Jesus to be crucified The peoples shouts won out
Why wasnt this perfume sold Why wasnt the money given to poor people
No one takes it from me I give it up myself I have the authority to give it up
God is not a God of disorder He is a God of peace
Then he gave a loud shout like the roar of a lion
If we say we dont know himhe will also say he doesnt know us
The Lord does things that have been known from long ago.
He said, “Suppose one of you has  sheep and loses one of them. Won’t he leave the  in the open country? Won’t he go and look for the one lost sheep until he finds it?
“I tell you, the tax collector went home accepted by God. But not the Pharisee. All those who lift themselves up will be made humble. And those who make themselves humble will be lifted up.”
My dear brothers and sisters pay attention to what I say Everyone should be quick to listen But they should be slow to speak They should be slow to get angry
He is staying with another Simon, a man who works with leather.
Enter Gods kingdom through the narrow gate The gate is large and the road is wide that leads to ruin Many people go that way
Aren’t all his sisters with us? Then where did this man get all these things?”
What do you think Suppose a man owns one hundred sheep and one of them wanders away Wont he leave the nighnity nine sheep on the hills Wont he go and look for the one that wandered off
Ive given her time to turn away from her sinful ways But she doesnt want to
So Saul stayed with the believers. He moved about freely in Jerusalem. He spoke boldly in the Lord’s name.
Moses said nothing about priests who were from the tribe of Judah
Jesus said to him Let dead people bury their own dead
I dreamed about you
When Mary heard this she got up quickly and went to him
Why are you amazed
Your gold and silver have lost their brightness.
I can swim very fast
The seed that fell among thorns stands for those who hear the message
This is the beginning of the good news about Jesus the Messiah the Son of God
She thought I only need to touch his clothes Then I will be healed
After she said this, she went back home. She called her sister Mary to one side to talk to her. “The Teacher is here,”
But what they do will show that they have turned their backs on Gods power
So Jesus said You will lift up the Son of Man Then you will know that I am he You will also know that I do nothing on my own I speak just what the Father has taught me
This happened while Claudius was the emperor.
Then they looked up and saw that the stone had been rolled away The stone was very large
They will see God.
Help us to be very bold when we speak your word
Listen.
If you make a tree good its fruit will be good If you make a tree bad its fruit will be bad You can tell a tree by its fruit
He said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I came into your house.
Brothers and sisters, each person is accountable to God. So each person should stay as they were when God chose them.
I do not let women teach or take authority over a man. They must be quiet.
“Do not commit adultery.” He also said, “Do not commit murder.”
Ill drive to Detroit
But if you do not forgive the sins of other people your Father will not forgive your sins
‘The pleasure you longed for has left you.
He has also commanded us to love one another.
But you are so strong
Don’t desire to commit sexual sins like people who don’t know God.
Jesus stopped and ordered the man to be brought to him. When the man came near, Jesus spoke to him.
Do this because Scripture says
Because God gave his word, Jesus makes certain the promise of a better covenant.
He saw one of them being treated badly by an Egyptian
I ran away in a hurry.
Now listen you who say Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city We will spend a year there We will buy and sell and make money
Instead a church leader must welcome people into his home He must love what is good
Always keep watching. Pray that you will be able to escape all that is about to happen. Also, pray that you will not be judged guilty when the Son of Man comes.”
You are not faithful to God.
I will dress that person in white like those worthy people. I will never erase their names from the book of life.
You can share in it because you’ve escaped from the evil in the world. This evil is caused by sinful desires.
And here is the second one Love your neighbor as you love yourself There is no commandment more important than these
Im glad to hear that
If possible, live in peace with everyone. Do that as much as you can.
‘In him we live and move and exist.’ As some of your own poets have also said, ‘We are his children.’
At that time some Pharisees came to Jesus. They said to him, “Leave this place. Go somewhere else. Herod wants to kill you.”
A mans enemies will be the members of his own family
At once they left their nets and followed him
Suppose people say bad things about you because you believe in Christ. Then you are blessed, because God’s Spirit rests on you. He is the Spirit of glory.
We are not holding back our love from you. But you are holding back your love from us.
Look I have put an open door in front of you No one can shut it
Then what should I do with Jesus who is called the Messiah Pilate asked
Believers Will Rise From the Dead
Why do you fight and argue among yourselves? Isn’t it because of your sinful desires? They fight within you.
He must not love money.
More and more men and women believed in the Lord. They joined the other believers.
What if he were on earth? Then he would not be a priest.
Everyone who sins is a slave of sin
The chief priests and the teachers of the law will not accept him either
Those who have preached the good news to you have told you these things.
Jesus left that place and went into the area of Judea and across the Jordan River. Again crowds of people came to him. As usual, he taught them.
God wants the spirit in us to belong only to him. God caused this spirit to live in us.
A door has opened wide for me to do some good work here.
Jesus Is Greater Than Moses
Dont let evil overcome you Overcome evil by doing good
I want you to know how hard I am working for you
He was given power to make people kill each other
Then all the Gentiles heard it I was saved from the lions mouth
When the dead rise they wont get married And their parents wont give them to be married They will be like the angels in heaven
People will love them They will love money They will brag and be proud They will tear others down They will not obey their parents They wont be thankful or holy
Everyone who calls
Not at all
“I have kept seven thousend people for myself. They have not bowed down to Baal.”
They traveled all across the island until they came to Paphos. There they met a Jew named Bar-Jesus. He was an evil magician and a false prophet.
I told you to get out
Right away the man stood up in front of them
But suppose a widow has children or grandchildren. They should first learn to put their faith into practice. They should care for their own family. In that way they will pay back their parents and grandparents. That pleases God.
In fact they will do even greater things Thats because I am going to the Father
Or suppose you receive a different message of good news
God has given me the grace to lay a foundation as a wise builder.
To some people the Spirit gives a message of wisdom. To others the same Spirit gives a message of knowledge.
When that day comes, you will no longer ask me for anything.
Now I want to say something about virgins. I have no direct command from the Lord. But I give my opinion. Because of the Lord’s mercy, I give it as one who can be trusted.
I asked Titus to go to you
Jesus was in Bethany. He was at the table in the home of Simon, who had a skin disease. A woman came with a special sealed jar. It contained very expensive perfume made out of pure nard. She broke the jar open and poured the perfume on Jesus’ head.
We know what love is because Jesus Christ gave his life for us
If anyone does not love the Lord, let a curse be on that person!
I have not come down from heaven to do what I want to do I have come to do what the one who sent me wants me to do
The believers gathered around Paul. Then he got up and went back into the city. The next day he and Barnabas left for Derbe.
Abrham swam.
Don’t think about how to satisfy sinful desires.
He answered I have already told you
She poured the perfume on my body to prepare me to be buried.
love for the Father is not in them
He was an educated man from Alexandria
Dear friend dont be like those who do evil Be like those who do well Anyone who does what is good belongs to God Anyone who does what is evil hasnt really seen or known God
It is for those who commit sexual sins. It is for those who commit homosexual acts. It is for people who buy and sell slaves. It is for liars. It is for people who tell lies in court. It is for those who are a witness to things that aren’t true. And it is for anything else that is the opposite of true teaching.
But now they have seen those works.
Jesus sent Peter and John on ahead. “Go,” he told them. “Prepare for us to eat the Passover meal.”
The people will turn their ears away from the truth
Then Paul and Barnabas answered them boldly. “We had to speak God’s word to you first,” they said.
Maybe they will come to their senses. Maybe they will escape the devil’s trap. He has taken them as prisoners to do what he wanted.
In the same way, I want to see results among you.
Then he sat down at the right hand of the King, the Majesty in heaven.
Turn left. .
Jesus Is Like Melchizedek
So let us get rid of the works of darkness that harm us. Let us do the works of light that protect us.
They teach nothing but human rules
At once the girl hurried to ask the king She said I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a big plate right now
It was the usual practice at the Passover Feast to let one prisoner go free The people could choose the one they wanted
everything you do is great and wonderful
These men went on ahead They waited for us at Troas
“Isn’t this the carpenter’s son? Isn’t his mother’s name Mary? Aren’t his brothers James, Joseph, Simon and Judas?
One day he called them together He also called others who were in the same kind of business
I am sending this letter to you, God’s holy people in Ephesus. Because you belong to Christ Jesus, you are faithful.
So the law was put in charge of us until Christ came He came so that we might be made right with God by believing in Christ
Because I belong to Christ Jesus I can take pride in my work for God
But now he has become useful to you and to me
He wrote the report.
After Paul had seen the vision we got ready at once to leave for Macedonia
She was always doing good and helping poor people
They have been adopted as God’s children.
The beast who used to exist
the great city of Babylon will be thrown down.
Is God unfair
I became your father by serving Christ Jesus and telling you the good news
Anyone who speaks in other languages builds up only themselves.
A large number of people followed Jesus Some were women whose hearts were filled with sorrow They cried loudly because of him
The person without the Spirit doesn’t accept the things that come from the Spirit of God. These things are foolish to them. They can’t understand them. In fact, such things can’t be understood without the Spirit’s help.
Im OK
It is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink. Then they got up to dance wildly in front of their god.”
God made it hard for them to understand
Do all work miracles?
You make it clear that you are a letter from Christ. You are the result of our work for God. You are a letter written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God. You are a letter written not on tablets made out of stone but on human hearts.
When you enter a house first say
What if a law had been given that could give life
They measured how deep the water was. They found that it was one hundred tewenty feet deep. A short time later they measured the water again. This time it was nignity feet deep.
Love the family of believers.
A certain ruler asked Jesus a question Good teacher he said what must I do to receive eternal life
Not at all!
But here is what I tell you Do not fight against an evil person Suppose someone slaps you on your right cheek Turn your other cheek to them also
He also gave sight to many who were blind
Jesus and his disciples went on their way Jesus came to a village where a woman named Martha lived
Who makes you different from anyone else?
He said This is the blood of the covenant God has commanded you to keep
He must be able to teach.
He is the one who made the heavens and the earth and the sea He made everything in them
These things happened in order that Scripture would come true. It says, “Not one of his bones will be broken.”
He had amazed them for a long time with his evil magic So they followed him
Five times the Jews gave me  strokes with a whip
Menna was the son of Mattatha
he was taken up to paradise He heard things there that couldnt be put into words They were things that no one is allowed to talk about
They know that Gods commands are right They know that those who do evil things should die But they continue to do those very things They also approve of others who do them
In the past, God gave us grace through the Law of Moses.
So I tell you today that I am not guilty if any of you dont believe
So here is how you should think of us We serve Christ We are trusted with the mysteries God has shown us
on earth as it is done in heaven
The way we show our love is to obey Gods commands He commands you to lead a life of love Thats what you have heard from the beginning
I saw heaven standing open. There in front of me was a white horse. Its rider is called Faithful and True. When he judges or makes war, he is always fair.
All the people came to the temple early in the morning They wanted to hear Jesus speak
The chief priests and the teachers of the law will not accept him either.
The Father loves the Son and has put everything into his hands.
“How terrible for you, blind guides! You say, ‘If anyone makes a promise in the name of the temple, it means nothing. But anyone who makes a promise in the name of the gold of the temple must keep that promise.’
How can they hear about him unless someone preaches to them
I am the Alpha and the Omega. I am the First and the Last. I am the Beginning and the End.
He likes watching TV
So they built a fire and welcomed all of us
They put the sponge on the stem of a hyssop plant. Then they lifted it up to Jesus’ lips.
Many drugs were lost medical supplies that were in the past no longer exist  ambulances and two cars were burned።
But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is honored everywhere except in his own town and in his own home.”
That’s just what I was doing in Jerusalem. On the authority of the chief priests, I put many of the Lord’s people in prison. I agreed that they should die.
People who serve in the temple get their food from the temple Dont you know this People who serve at the altar eat from what is offered on the altar Dont you know this
As Jesus was on his way the crowds almost crushed him
Their dullness will be a witness against you
But I want you to continue to follow what you have learned and are sure about You know the people you learned it from
Now may God supply you with everything good Then you can do what he wants
Suppose someone sees a brother or sister in need and is able to help them.
Yes You have said so Jesus replied
Some people in Jerusalem were thought to be important. But it makes no difference to me what they were. God does not treat people differently. Those people added nothing to my message.
Fathers dont make your children angry
Cornelius and all his family were faithful and worshiped God.
It is the promise that our tewelve tribes are hoping to see come true.
The farmer who works hard should be the first to receive a share of the crops
People were also bringing babies to Jesus They wanted him to place his hands on the babies When the disciples saw this they told the people to stop
It will not come until the man of sin appears. He is a marked man.
You have never heard his voice.
“ ‘Lord,’ I replied, ‘these people know what I used to do. I went from one synagogue to another and put believers in prison. I also beat them.
Heavenly bodies have one kind of glory
There was no crowd with me.
God has placed them under his judgment
Let both grow together until the harvest. At that time I will tell the workers what to do. Here is what I will say to them. First collect the weeds. Tie them in bundles to be burned. Then gather the wheat. Bring it into my storeroom.’ ”
Her name in the Greek language is Dorcas.
Peter knocked at the outer entrance A servant named Rhoda came to answer the door
May he do in us what is pleasing to him? We can do it only with the help of Jesus Christ.
Who plants a vineyard but doesn’t eat any of its grapes?
He spent everything he had Then the whole country ran low on food So the son didnt have what he needed
“Come. See a man who told me everything I’ve ever done. Could this be the Messiah?”
Your years will never end.”
In fact, he even counts every hair on your head!
I know how much you want to help. I have been bragging about it to the people in Macedonia. I have been telling them that since last year you who live in Achaia were ready to give. You are so excited that it has stirred up most of them to take action.
Jesus led his disciples out to the area near Bethany. Then he lifted up his hands and blessed them.
Some were held by chains
A third of the ships were destroyed.
His face was like the sun. His legs were like pillars of fire.
He must manage his own family well He must make sure that his children obey him And he must do this in a way that gains him respect
That is what we speak about We dont use words taught to us by people We use words taught to us by the Holy Spirit We use the words taught by the Spirit to explain spiritual truths
After Paul had seen the vision, we got ready at once to leave for Macedonia. We decided that God had called us to preach the good news there.
He gathered its grapes Then he threw them into a huge winepress The winepress stands for Gods anger
And that’s not all. We have the Holy Spirit as the promise of future blessing. But we also groan inside ourselves. We do this as we look forward to the time when God adopts us as full members of his family. Then he will give us everything he has for us. He will raise our bodies and give glory to them.
You have taken with you the shrine of your false god Molek.
He wanted the rulers and authorities in the heavenly world to come to know his great wisdom. The church would make it known to them.
Not everyone in the family line of Israel really belongs to Israel
“Salvation belongs to our God,
Anyone who loves their life will lose it.
He let them go on worshiping the sun, moon and stars.
But God had given a promise through all the prophets. And this is how he has made his promise come true. He said that his Messiah would suffer.
So we will grow up in every way to become the body of Christ.
“You will see ‘the hated thing that destroys.’ It will stand where it does not belong. The reader should understand this.
So the people of today will be punished They will pay for all the prophets blood spilled since the world began
You have made them priests to serve our God
May God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace
Lord Martha said to Jesus I wish you had been here
We love because he loved us first
Then you may pray
So we are being changed to become more like him so that we have more and more glory And this glory comes from the Lord who is the Holy Spirit
A third angel followed them. He said in a loud voice,
Which good work are you throwing stones at me for?”
Joseph was the son of Heli.
Long ago Gods word brought the heavens into being His word separated the earth from the waters
All the people saw him walking and praising God.
The worshipers would have been made clean once and for all time They would not have felt guilty for their sins anymore
But someday I will know completely just as God knows me completely
We serve him whether the news about us is bad or good
He did this even though it led to his death.
They tie up heavy loads that are hard to carry Then they put them on other peoples shoulders But they themselves arent willing to lift a finger to move them
The two will become one.”
I have always wanted to preach the good news where Christ was not known I dont want to build on what someone else has started
But we are citizens of heaven. And we can hardly wait for a Savior from there. He is the Lord Jesus Christ.
Be sad with those who are sad.
So Peter was kept in prison.
What are you arguing with them about Jesus asked
And one stars glory is different from that of another star
Still others claimed, “He is a prophet. He is like one of the prophets of long ago.”
I hope that you will always be able to remember these things after Im gone I will try very hard to see that you do
Be watchful and control yourselves.
The other ten disciples heard about it They became angry at James and John
I tell you I will not eat the Passover meal again until it is celebrated in Gods kingdom
It doesn’t do any good.
No one tears a piece out of new clothes to patch old clothes
Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
He wants us to be holy and godly as long as we live.
“How do you understand it?”
We looked for the believers there and stayed with them for seven days
But first let me go back and say goodbye to my family
Don’t you believe that I am in the Father? Don’t you believe that the Father is in me? The words I say to you I do not speak on my own authority. The Father lives in me. He is the one who is doing his work.
When he saw Jesus a long way off he ran to him He fell on his knees in front of him
And they knew that the disciples had gone away alone.
You accept praise from one another.
Then the angel took the gold cup and filled it with fire from the altar.
The time has come
Then Jesus spoke to the chief priests, the officers of the temple guard, and the elders. They had all come for him. “Am I leading a band of armed men against you?” he asked. “Do you have to come with swords and clubs?
Here is what Im telling you I am speaking for the Lord as I warn you You must no longer live as the Gentiles do Their thoughts dont have any purpose
In the same way, Abraham “believed God. God was pleased with Abraham because he believed.
Some seed fell on rocky ground. When it grew, the plants dried up because they had no water.
At once the Holy Spirit sent Jesus out into the desert
Then the last will be first. And the first will be last.”
But he didn’t do the same thing back to them.
It will not be like the covenant I made with their people of long ago
Whatever you believe about these things, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the person who doesn’t feel guilty for what they do.
They promise to give freedom to these new believers. But they themselves are slaves to sinful living. That’s because “people are slaves to anything that controls them.”
That would not make me a fool because I would be telling the truth
How terrible for you, great city, gleaming with gold, jewels and pearls!
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
People who are ungodly run after all those things.
Jesus Promises That the Holy Spirit Will Come
They left the crowd behind. And they took him along in a boat, just as he was. There were also other boats with him.
A sword will wound your own soul too.”
You pretender! First take the piece of wood out of your own eye. Then you will be able to see clearly to take the bit of sawdust out of your friend’s eye.
He is the Savior of all people
Be ready to give the reason for it But do it gently and with respect
It is certainly Abrahams children that he helps He doesnt help angels
The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men.”
love builds them up.
But no one would say anything about him openly. They were afraid of the leaders.
They were purchased from among human beings as a first offering to God and the Lamb.
The dead man came out. His hands and feet were wrapped with strips of linen. A cloth was around his face.
And now you will have to be silent You will not be able to speak until after John is born
Others said He is the Messiah
I warn you now as I did before
This youth game is a day of freedom for the female youth Shadey leaves for the male and Loffer Lofe is their day of freedom።
I have been crucified with Christ I dont live any longer but Christ lives in me Now I live my life in my body by faith in the Son of God He loved me and gave himself for me
With great power the apostles continued their teaching They were telling people that the Lord Jesus had risen from the dead
How are you feeling?
We would have been like Gomorrah
Jesus was in Bethany He was in the home of Simon who had a skin disease
Suppose we say that we share life with God but still walk in the darkness Then we are lying We are not living out the truth
All these people were still living by faith when they died. They didn’t receive the things God had promised. They only saw them and welcomed them from a long way off. They openly said that they were outsiders and strangers on earth.
But no one knows about that day or hour Not even the angels in heaven know The Son does not know Only the Father knows
Then you should come together again. In that way, Satan will not tempt you when you can’t control yourselves.
He said that Saul had seen the Lord He told how the Lord had spoken to Saul
But suppose someone does sin. Then we have a friend who speaks to the Father for us.
Anyone who welcomes a little child like this one in my name welcomes me
Come Gather together for the great supper of God
All who heard him were amazed. They asked, “Isn’t he the man who caused great trouble in Jerusalem? Didn’t he make trouble for those who worship Jesus? Hasn’t he come here to take them as prisoners to the chief priests?”
Jesus answered I tell you not seven times but seventy seven times
Jesus spoke to his disciples Things that make people sin are sure to come he said But how terrible it will be for anyone who causes those things to come
But you have a practice at Passover time. At that time, you ask me to set one prisoner free for you.
He will live with them. They will be his people.
They have been under a sentence of death for a long time.
So the Pharisees and the teachers of the law questioned Jesus Why dont your disciples live by what the elders teach they asked Why do they eat their food with unclean hands
Then Jesus’ parents brought the child in. They came to do for him what the Law required.
sexual sins and stealing.
If their plans and actions only come from people they will fail
Liang'im, who had been squeezed out of the  exams he took from two thousend on eup to two thousend  two, did not achieve the feat to attend university።
“Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!”
Then I saw something that looked like a sea of glass glowing with fire. Standing beside the sea were those who had won the battle over the beast. They had also overcome its statue and the number of its name. They held harps given to them by God.
Judas was in charge of the money. So some of the disciples thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the feast.
Do it in a gentle way But be careful You could be tempted too
Christ must rule until he has put all his enemies under his control
He wanted to make us pure He wanted us to be his very own people He wanted us to desire to do what is good
But it is shameful for her to cut her hair or shave her head. So she should cover her head.
We must control ourselves. We must do what is right. We must lead godly lives in today’s world.
Treat everyone the same.
I hope you will help me on my journey there. But first I want to enjoy being with you for a while.
Do not be joined to unbelievers
which the Lord hates.
Some Jews Believe and Some Dont
The second death has no power over them
They serve at a sacred tent. But it is only a copy and shadow of what is in heaven. That’s why God warned Moses when he was about to build the holy tent. God said, “Be sure to make everything just like the pattern I showed you on the mountain.”
They took John Mark with them.
This beast had all the authority of the first beast It did what the first beast wanted
We should not commit sexual sins, as some of them did. In one day , of them died.
Jesus came down from the mountainside Large crowds followed him
Then I heard another voice from heaven.
Suppose you had ten thoused believers in Christ watching over you You still wouldnt have many fathers
We don’t know where they have put him!”
I am cold
Jesus said to his mother, “Dear woman, here is your son.”
The angel struck Peter on his side. Peter woke up. “Quick!” the angel said.
First I preached to people in Damascus. Then I preached in Jerusalem and in all Judea. And then I preached to the Gentiles. I told them to turn away from their sins to God. The way they live must show that they have turned away from their sins.
They said This fellow claimed I am able to destroy the temple of God I can build it again in three days
But Jesus asked him, “Judas, are you handing over the Son of Man with a kiss?
And don’t let the world make you impure.
One of the beasts heads seemed to have had a deadly wound But the wound had been healed The whole world was amazed and followed the beast
We are knocked down. But we are not knocked out.
Faith is being sure of what we hope for It is being sure of what we do not see
They brought their charges against Paul to the governor.
They will gather a large number of teachers around them The teachers will say what the people want to hear
So dont be afraid
The commander replied Lord I am not good enough to have you come into my house But just say the word and my servant will be healed
But in front of all of them, Peter said he was not. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said.
But I want to test you. I want to find out if you really love God. I want to compare your love with that of others.
Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man. “I am willing to do it,” he said. “Be ‘clean’!” Right away the disease left him.
Here is the name that is written on the riders robe and on his thigh
Give glory to our God and Father for ever and ever. Amen.
Remind God’s people to obey rulers and authorities. Remind them to be ready to do what is good.
I have to wake Abraham up
That friend is the Spirit of truth.
But because of God’s grace I am what I am.
But you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem
But not all the people of Israel accepted the good news Isaiah says Lord who has believed our message
He has done it to show the riches of his grace for all time to come. His grace can’t be compared with anything else. He has shown it by being kind to us. He was kind to us because of what Christ Jesus has done.
They had not committed sexual sins with women They had kept themselves pure
God has remembered her crimes.
“Go away!” he said. “What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are. You are the Holy One of God!”
Christ Is Gods Power and Wisdom
You are from this world.
“Your great learning is driving you crazy!”
He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him He began to be sad and troubled
See what amazing love the Father has given us Because of it we are called children of God
And Jesus, who makes people holy, and the people he makes holy belong to the same family. So Jesus is not ashamed to call them his brothers and sisters.
But now you have returned to the Shepherd.
If the whole body were an eye how could it hear
Heres how we know that we are joined to him and he to us He has given us his Holy Spirit
Doesnt it want to find out what he is doing
“Sir,” the woman said, “I can see that you are a prophet.
Others said an angel had spoken to Jesus.
But the dragon wasnt strong enough Both he and his angels lost their place in heaven
Otherwise the new wine will burst the skins
After this I looked and there in front of me was a door standing open in heaven
Live like children of the light.
It will be the glory of your people Israel
The Plan to Kill Jesus
We have been made holy by what God wanted. We have been made holy because Jesus Christ offered his body once and for all time.
He asked the priest for letters to the synagogues in Damascus. He wanted to find men and women who belonged to the Way of Jesus. The letters would allow him to take them as prisoners to Jerusalem.
I cant decide between the two
He gave his life to pay for our sins But he not only paid for our sins He also paid for the sins of the whole world
They tripped over the stone that causes people to trip and fall.
As it is you brag You brag about the evil plans your pride produces This kind of bragging is evil
John the Baptists Head Is Cut Off
He held seven stars in his right hand. Coming out of his mouth was a sharp sword with two edges. His face was like the sun shining in all its brightness.
But the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary. God is very pleased with you.
In short it implies that God has learned Adam as his son።
But Barnabas took him to the apostles. He told them about Saul’s journey. He said that Saul had seen the Lord. He told how the Lord had spoken to Saul. Barnabas also said that Saul had preached without fear in Jesus’ name in Damascus.
Here he is! He is speaking openly. They aren’t saying a word to him. Have the authorities really decided that he is the Messiah?
You knew that God had given you better and more lasting things
Let them see how pure you are Let them see that your lives are full of respect for God
The next day we landed at Sidon
They were happy to do it And of course they owe it to them
“Look!” he said. “I see heaven open. The Son of Man is standing at God’s right hand.”
What will you do so we can see it and believe you
He still could not speak
they caught a large number of fish
Instead, one of the soldiers stuck his spear into Jesus’ side.
and sea creatures.
But now you are the people of God
No she said He must be called John
You have seen these things with your own eyes.
Get up and go downstairs. Don’t let anything keep you from going with them. I have sent them.”
Here is my opinion about what is best for you in that matter
Along with Titus we are sending another brother All the churches praise him for his service in telling the good news
Suppose the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in other languages
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa Those women work hard for the Lord
Remember when I first preached the good news to you? Remember I did that because I was sick.
But we sailed from Philippi after the Feast of Unleavened Bread Five days later we joined the others at Troas
When I want to do good, evil is right there with me.
By Gods word the heavens and earths of today are being reserved for fire They are being kept for the day when God will judge Then ungodly people will be destroyed
Then he took a cup. He gave thanks and handed it to them. He said, “All of you drink from it.
Ill drive you home
The number of people from Israel may be like the sand by the sea
He was amazed because they had no faith
At that time a Jew named Apollos came to Ephesus
You remained strong in a great battle that was full of suffering.
Think about how a small spark can set a big forest on fire
The city had a huge, high wall with tewelve gates. Twelve angels were at the gates, one at each of them. On the gates were written the names of the tewelve tribes of Israel.
-Gaius sends you his greetings
“Seven,” they answered.
Be Holy
Then he climbed into the boat with them The wind died down And they were completely amazed
It is the number of a man
Wasnt it with those who sinned They died in the desert
I speak now to those who are not married I also speak to widows It is good for you to stay single like me
Become my servants and learn from me. I am gentle and free of pride. You will find rest for your souls.
Do not want what belongs to others.”
What dies must be dressed with what does not die
Then I saw a Lamb that looked as if he had been put to death.
Brothers and sisters
who sits on the throne
That person should show it by living a good life.
a bad tree doesnt bear good fruit
You have already heard about it. You were told about it when the true message was given to you. I’m talking about the good news
While you have the light believe in it Then you can become children of light
I am afraid for you I am afraid that somehow I have wasted my efforts on you
So they asked his disciples, “Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners?”
The Lord has done it.
Jesus strongly warned them not to tell this to anyone.
The Lord makes me certain that you will see the truth of this. The one who has gotten you all mixed up will have to pay the price.
Nothing will harm you.
The prophets also wrote about him He is Jesus of Nazareth the son of Joseph
I hope to send Timothy to you soon if the Lord Jesus allows it. Then I will be encouraged when I receive news about you.
Live in a way that shows you have turned away from your sins
But someday I will know completely, just as God knows me completely.
The goal is to even things out
We put a small piece of metal in the mouth of a horse to make it obey us. We can control the whole animal with it.
Why do you say that?
That belief and understanding lead to the hope of eternal life Before time began God promised to give that life And he does not lie
The Psalms also say,
It was being let down from heaven by its four corners It came down to where I was
“Pour out the seven bowls of God’s great anger on the earth.”
Jesus’ disciples heard this. Many of them said, “This is a hard teaching. Who can accept it?”
Then Jacob went down to Egypt
We all have gifts. They differ according to the grace God has given to each of us. Do you have the gift of prophecy? Then use it according to the faith you have.
Then ungodly people will be destroyed.
Your riches have rotted. Moths have eaten your clothes.
Give him thanks and honor and power and strength.
He sent for Barnabas and Saul. He wanted to hear God’s word.
A large crowd of people followed him. They had seen the signs he had done by healing sick people.
And you were raised to life together with him when you were baptized You were raised to life by believing in Gods work God himself raised Jesus from the dead
People like that have a lot to learn. What I say in my letters when I’m away from you, I will do in my actions when I’m with you.
Jesus and his disciples arrived again in Jerusalem. He was walking in the temple courtyard. Then the chief priests came to him. The teachers of the law and the elders came too.
Jesus heard what had happened to John. He wanted to be alone. So he went in a boat to a quiet place. The crowds heard about this. They followed him on foot from the towns.
When the dead rise, they won’t get married. And their parents won’t give them to be married. They will be like the angels in heaven.
glory have disappeared forever.’
An authority on the law spoke to Jesus.
earth and sea and all that is in them
So he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore-fig tree He wanted to see Jesus who was coming that way
And they still tame them.
You want the gifts of the Spirit So try to do your best in using gifts that build up the church
Terror will make people faint. They will be worried about what is happening in the world. The sun, moon and stars will be shaken from their places.
Abrahams Faith Made Him Right with God
says the Lord God.
Some have not accepted this knowledge of right and wrong. So they have destroyed their faith. They are like a ship that has sunk.
After all what is Apollos
I am the Alpha and the Omega the Beginning and the End says the Lord God I am the God who is and who was and who will come I am the Mighty One
Jared was the son of Mahalalel
No they answered We havent even heard that there is a Holy Spirit
I always study hard.
Some Jewish believers had come with Peter. They were amazed because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out even on the Gentiles.
While I was with them, I guarded them. I kept them safe through the name you gave me.
So don’t be afraid in any way of those who oppose you.
But you have come to Mount Zion. You have come to the city of the living God. This is the heavenly Jerusalem. You have come to a joyful gathering of angels. There are thousands and thousands of them.
Then he climbed into the boat with them. The wind died down. And they were completely amazed.
Even sinners love those who love them
A great sign appeared in heaven It was a woman wearing the sun like clothes The moon was under her feet On her head she wore a crown of  stars
And I sent our brother with him.
So Simon Peter climbed back into the boat. He dragged the net to shore. It was full of large fish.
But suppose I drive out demons with the help of God’s powerful finger.Then God’s kingdom has come upon you.
Judas and Silas were prophets They said many things to give strength and hope to the believers
Put on all of God’s armor. Then you can remain strong against the devil’s evil plans.
That day will come on every person who lives on the whole earth
If anyone destroys God’s temple, God will destroy that person. God’s temple is holy. And you all together are that temple.
They heard that the Lord had given Jesus the power to heal the sick.
Then say to the owner of the house, ‘The Teacher asks, “Where is the guest room? Where can I eat the Passover meal with my disciples?” ’
God will erase many sins by forgiving them.
When Ananias heard this, he fell down and died.
Reach out your hand and put it into my side.
Then he said to the disciples What Im about to tell you is true
They stayed there until King Herod died. So the words the Lord had spoken through the prophet came true. He had said, “I brought my son out of Egypt.”
Didnt the one who made the outside make the inside also
Moths have eaten your clothes
He turned against his leaders These people will certainly be destroyed just as Korah was
The locusts were not allowed to kill these people. But the locusts could hurt them over and over for five months.
So get rid of every kind of evil, and stop telling lies. Don’t pretend to be something you are not. Stop wanting what others have, and don’t speak against one another.
But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is honored everywhere except in his own town and in his own home.”
He went back inside the palace Where do you come from he asked Jesus
all who earn their living from the sea.
Come and see said Philip
Then the disciples brought the colt to Jesus. They threw their coats on the young donkey and put Jesus on it.
Because of how I suffered for Christ, I’m glad that I am weak. I am glad in hard times. I am glad when people say mean things about me. I am glad when things are difficult. And I am glad when people make me suffer. When I am weak, I am strong.
That time began when John was baptizing. It ended when Jesus was taken up from us. The one we choose must join us in telling people that Jesus rose from the dead.”
One Sabbath day Jesus was walking through the grainfields. His disciples began to break off some heads of grain. They rubbed them in their hands and ate them.
Jesus’ Appearance Is Changed
In the church at Antioch there were prophets and teachers.
They will be paid back with harm for the harm they have done.
But God does not forget even one of them.
He will not give it only to me. He will also give it to all those who are longing for him to return.
They should bring charges if they have anything against me
What if a message from God comes to someone else who is sitting there? Then the one who is speaking should stop.
Arent you controlled by a demon
Because he was very sad and troubled he prayed even harder His sweat was like drops of blood falling to the ground
Nothing will harm you
But you know that Timothy has proved himself He has served with me like a son with his father in spreading the good news
Only a persons own spirit can know them
The crowd took Jesus to the high priest All the chief priests the elders and the teachers of the law came together
But I haven’t used any of those rights. And I’m not writing because I hope you will do things like that for me. I would rather die than allow anyone to take away my pride in my work.
They say no to Jesus Christ, our only Lord and King.
No one can question the truth. So teach what is true. Then those who oppose you will be ashamed. That’s because they will have nothing bad to say about us.
Instead I went into Arabia
Jesus and his disciples went on to the villages around Caesarea Philippi. On the way he asked them, “Who do people say I am?”
So I hope to send him as soon as I see how things go with me.
They shouldn’t wear their hair in very fancy styles.
Be calm.
I was tested by the evil plans of the Jews who disagreed with me
But they didn’t find the apostles there.
no ear has heard,
Blessed is anyone who stays awake and keeps their clothes on
A Levite also came by. When he saw the man, he passed by on the other side too.
This happened while Claudius was the emperor
I even had some official letters they had written to their friends in Damascus. So I went there to bring these people as prisoners to Jerusalem to be punished.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who accepts someone I send accepts me.
Obed was the son of Boaz.
“‘The Lord will command his angels to take good care of you.
We stayed there for seven days
A man named Simon lived in the city. For quite a while he had practiced evil magic there. He amazed all the people of Samaria.
He used to help himself to what was in it
When Jesus came ashore he saw a large crowd He felt deep concern for them They were like sheep without a shepherd So he began teaching them many things
You have already had your easy life
Are you still going back?”
Jesus Heals an Official’s Son
I pray that you may understand more clearly Then you will know the hope God has chosen you to receive
In the same way the tongue is a small part of a persons body But it talks big Think about how a small spark can set a big forest on fire
Now they know that everything you have given me comes from you.
The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men
All his neighbors were filled with fear and wonder
They talked to each other about it. They said, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will ask, ‘Then why didn’t you believe him?’
She thought, “I only need to touch his clothes. Then I will be healed.”
I hope it is also plain to your way of thinking.
What Paul Asks for Himself
Paul and Barnabas preached the good news in the city of Derbe. They won large numbers of followers. Then they returned to Lystra, Iconium and Antioch.
What do you want me to do for you he asked
Now come I will send you back to Egypt
Long ago these spirits did not obey That was when God was patient while Noah was building the ark
The next day the rulers, the elders and
At that time, many will turn away from their faith. They will hate each other. They will hand each other over to their enemies.
After this Jesus and his disciples went out into the countryside of Judea
How can you say that?
At that very moment the spirit left the woman
Here is my command Love one another just as I have loved you
So they told him, “We have seen the Lord!”
The Holiday is an ancient expression of the Wag culture that came to be associated with the Orthodox Tewahedo faith for about  times
I’m afraid that when I come I won’t find you as I want you to be.
They will see his face His name will be on their foreheads
Then a teacher of the law came to him He said Teacher I will follow you no matter where you go
But here is what I tell you. On judgment day, everyone will have to account for every empty word they have spoken.
Suppose someone thinks they know more than we do
You will weep and mourn while the world is full of joy.
Come in.
But I tell you this. On judgment day it will be easier for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
They must be able to teach
Their idea of pleasure is to have wild parties in the middle of the day.
One was on his right and one was on his left.
They received the blessings God had promised.
The Spirit marks us as God’s own. We can now be sure that someday we will receive all that God has promised. That will happen after God sets all his people completely free. All these things will bring praise to his glory.
Then the daughter of Herodias came in and danced. She pleased Herod and his dinner guests.
As he was praying, the appearance of his face changed.
Follow the lead of one another because of your respect for Christ
Salvation belongs to our Godwho sits on the throne
You are worthy because you created all things.
He will be quick to carry it out on earth once and for all
Dont be fooled You cant outsmart God A man gathers a crop from what he plants
Im Abrham s assistant
They must be honest and true.
When we got to Rome Paul was allowed to live by himself But a soldier guarded him
Eutychus Is Raised From the Dead at Troas
Why not be treated wrongly
We arent trying to please people We want to please God He tests our hearts
Our parents trained us for a little while They did what they thought was best But God trains us for our good He does this so we may share in his holiness
A friend of mine on a journey has come to stay with me. I have no food to give him.’
But he has given proof of what he is like. He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven. He gives you crops in their seasons. He provides you with plenty of food. He fills your hearts with joy.”
He suffered the things we should have sufferedHe took on himself the sicknesses that should have been ours
I have said you are “gods” ’?
Jesus left Nazareth and went to live in the city of Capernaum It was by the lake in the area of Zebulun and Naphtali
The rain comes down. The water rises. The winds blow and beat against that house. But it does not fall. It is built on the rock.
But here is what I tell you On judgment day everyone will have to account for every empty word they have spoken
Greet also the church that meets in the house of Priscilla and Aquila.
They did what your power and purpose had already decided should happen.
When Moses heard this he escaped to Midian He lived there as an outsider
But the Lord doesn’t bless those who do evil.”
I have not come on my own God sent me
Amos was the son of Nahum
I am certain he knows everything that has been going on. After all, it was not done in secret.
Then your Father in heaven will forgive your sins
They were scattered after Stephen was killed.
So I beg you to be patient as you listen to me
You will just be speaking into the air.
In the same way after the supper he took the cup He said This cup is the new covenant in my blood It is poured out for you
But not everything is helpful. Again some of you say, “I have the right to do anything.”
I am not seeking glory for myself
They misuse the grace of our God as an excuse for sexual sins
They are like wild waves of the sea.
It is for people who buy and sell slaves
Then everyone will know that these reports about you are not true in any way
She came up behind Jesus and touched the edge of his clothes.
When they confessed their sins, John baptized them in the Jordan.
Christ suffered in his body So prepare yourselves to think in the same way Christ did Do this because whoever suffers in their body is finished with sin
If our hearts judge us, we know that God is greater than our hearts.
I have made a fool of me But you made me do it You should have praised me Even though I am nothing I am in no way less important than the super-apostles
“That’s why a man will leave his father and mother
But whoever is joined to the Lord becomes one with him in spirit.
How can we thank God enough for you We thank God because of all the joy we have in his presence We have this joy because of you
The Jews asked him to spend more time with them
Im sick
And they stayed there a long time with the believers.
Teachings for Christian Families
But whoever has doubts about what they eat is guilty if they eat. That’s because their eating is not based on faith. Everything that is not based on faith is sin.
Listen You can hear the steps of the men who buried your husband They are at the door
They must not let wine control them Instead they must teach what is good
Remember how it was in the days of Noah It will be the same when the Son of Man comes
To others he gives the ability to tell the spirits apart
I begged your disciples to drive it out But they couldnt do it
Just like animals these people too will die
They think only about earthly things
I face death every day. That’s the truth. And here is something you can be just as sure of. I take pride in what Christ Jesus our Lord has done for you through my work.
Dont worry about anything No matter what happens tell God about everything Ask and pray and give thanks to him
Judas was the one who was going to hand him over He said Surely you dont mean me Teacher do you
He is full of energy.
But later on it produces a harvest of godliness and peace. It does this for those who have been trained by it.
Paul and those traveling with him passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia. They came to Thessalonica. A Jewish synagogue was there.
But for one hour they will receive authority to rule together with the beast
They said,
Right away the temple gates were shut.
Then he showed them his hands and his side.
But Eve’s mind was tricked by the snake’s clever lies. And here’s what I’m afraid of. Your minds will also somehow be led astray. They will be led away from your true and pure love for Christ.
The world is guilty as far as godliness is concerned Thats because I am going to the Father where you cant see me anymore
No one has ever seen God. But the One and only is God and is at the Father’s side.
Sarah was like that
First, here is what people are telling me. When you come together as a church, you take sides.
We are Parthians, Medes and Elamites. We live in Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia. We are from Pontus, Asia,
You are not faithful to God Dont you know that to be a friend of the world is to hate God So anyone who chooses to be the worlds friend becomes Gods enemy
They spoke in languages they had not known before
The end of all things is near So be watchful and control yourselves Then you may pray
And, “A pig that is washed goes back to rolling in the mud.”
They include Phygelus and Hermogenes
They all saw him and were terrified.
Most excellent Felix we gladly admit this everywhere and in every way And we are very thankful
See to it that no one commits sexual sins. See to it that no one is godless like Esau.
You have never heard his voice
Then Peter stood up with the eleven apostles
But if you do, put up with me just as you would put up with a fool. Then I can do a little bragging.
Whoever walks in the dark does not know where they are going
Abraham gave him a tenth of everything
This early public holiday of Wagga, the Shadei holiday, became possible after the  year of its publication to inform the country as well as the world ።
Jesus reached the spot where Zacchaeus was He looked up and said Zacchaeus come down at once I must stay at your house today
So he called out Stand up on your feet
Then they motioned to his father
The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea
In the past, God didn’t judge people for what they didn’t know. But now he commands all people everywhere to turn away from their sins.
So don’t destroy them by what you eat. Remember that Christ died for them.
The name of the star is Wormwood A third of the water turned bitter Many people died from it
I get you
What Jesus did here in Cana in Galilee was the first of his signs
Remind Gods people to obey rulers and authorities Remind them to be ready to do what is good
I laughed
You have judged and murdered people who arent guilty
The Spirit helps us understand what God has freely given us
You have even failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields. Their pay is crying out against you. The cries of those who gathered the harvest have reached the ears of the Lord. He rules over all.
So God in his wisdom said
Scripture says, “When you are angry, do not sin.”
The unbelieving wife has been made holy through her believing husband.
I push myself forward toward the goal to win the prize God has appointed me to win it The heavenly prize is Christ Jesus himself
In fact there were only eight
But a time is coming when I will speak clearly Then I will tell you plainly about my Father
The Tomb Is Empty
There he talked both with Jews and with Greeks who worshiped God.
But they found it by having faith.
When the child was eight days old he was circumcised At the same time he was named Jesus This was the name the angel had given him before his mother became pregnant
Instead, you welcomed me as if I were an angel of God. You welcomed me as if I were Christ Jesus himself.
All this took place to bring about what the Lord had said would happen He had said through the prophet
Every day they went to the temple praising God
Jesus replied, “You are mistaken, because you do not know the Scriptures. And you do not know the power of God.
Here is what we take pride in. Our sense of what is right and wrong tells us how we have acted. We have lived with honor and godly honesty. We have depended on God’s grace and not on the world’s wisdom. We lived that way most of all when we were dealing with you.
It is written, “I believed, and so I have spoken.”
Meanwhile Saul continued to oppose the Lords followers He said they would be put to death
The explanation here is that twenty five up to thirty Birr is paid to unload or load one quintal load from a car
We headed out to sea. Aristarchus was with us. He was a Macedonian from Thessalonica.
So his faith made him right with God.
They went to their own town of Nazareth.
If anyone does not love the Lord let a curse be on that person Come Lord
In fact he even counts every hair on your head
Follow it with faith and love because you belong to Christ Jesus
The Day and Hour Are Not Known
Fight the good fight along with all other believers Take hold of eternal life
We know it when we love God and obey his commands.
Jesus replied, “What I’m about to tell you is true. You must have faith and not doubt. Then you can do what was done to the fig tree. And you can say to this mountain, ‘Go and throw yourself into the sea.’ It will be done.
“Lord, do you want us to call down fire from heaven to destroy them?”
I will show you whom you should be afraid of
Then they returned with orders that Silas and Timothy were supposed to join him as soon as they could
has become the most important stone of all.
You know that God is right and always does what is right.
Ill show you my room
So the Pharisees did not agree with one another
The people will celebrate by sending one another gifts.
She brags to herself,
Those who heard this asked, “Then who can be saved?”
He was seen only by us.
“If you do not judge other people, then you will not be judged.
If that is how God dresses the wild grass wont he dress you even better Your faith is so small After all the grass is here only today Tomorrow it is thrown into the fire
It is for those who believe.
It was very early in the morning on the first day of the week. The women took the spices they had prepared. Then they went to the tomb.
Wearing gold jewelry
Then the day of Unleavened Bread came That was the time the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed
We are sending this letter to you, our brothers and sisters in Colossae. You belong to Christ. You are holy and faithful.
Make sure that you dont forget what you have heard from the beginning Then you will remain joined to the Son and to the Father
It doesn’t make sense to send a prisoner on to Rome without listing the charges against him.”
I would like all of you to speak in other languages.
The Sabbath day was now over It was dawn on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb
Melea was the son of Menna
His letters include some things that are hard to understand
See how patient the farmer is for the fall and spring rains
We died with Christ. So we believe that we will also live with him.
He heard a voice speak to him Saul Saul Why are you opposing me
impure acts
Because of Christ we speak honestly before God We speak like people God has sent
God treats everyone the same
A time is coming when all who are in their graves will hear his voice
who sits on the throne.
“Lord, even the demons obey us when we speak in your name.”
They replied The Lord needs it
Mary sat at the Lords feet listening to what he said
Nothing God created is hidden from him.
God’s people need to be very patient. They are the ones who obey God’s commands. And they remain faithful to Jesus.
Then the apostles gathered around Jesus and asked him a question. “Lord,” they said, “is you going to give the kingdom back to Israel now?”
The Scriptures you study are a witness about me.
Have you experienced so much for nothing
Then he said to them, “Watch out! Be on your guard against wanting to have more and more things. Life is not made up of how much a person has.”
They were filled with fear
It does not dishonor other people It does not look out for its own interests It does not easily become angry It does not keep track of other peoples wrongs
Here is the important thing Whether for right or wrong reasons Christ is being preached about
They said, “Rabbi, where are you staying?” Rabbi means Teacher.
There we were going to take Paul on board. He had planned it this way because he wanted to go to Assos by land.
In fact it has continued this way since God first created everything
There he spent some time with them. And he baptized people there.
You should also want the gifts the Holy Spirit gives Most of all you should want the gift of prophecy
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you
That is what I say to stand up for myself when people judge me
They should wear clothes that are right and proper.
We pray that he will make perfect all that you have done by faith
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace.
But some of them went to the Pharisees. They told the Pharisees what Jesus had done.
So were some women who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses
He took away the weapons of the powers and authorities. He made a public show of them. He won the battle over them by dying on the cross.
Even though I am not right there with you, I am with you in spirit.
the Beginning and the End,”
I am happy because of what I am suffering for you
You havent come to a mountain that can be touched You havent come to a mountain burning with fire You havent come to darkness gloom and storm
Greet Priscilla and Aquila. They work together with me in serving Christ Jesus.
Day and night, there will be no rest for anyone who worships the beast and its statue.
Mary would later pour perfume on the Lord. She would also wipe Jesus’ feet with her hair.
Before long the world will not see me anymore
When evening came, Jesus arrived with the  disciples.
So I do not run like someone who doesn’t run toward the finish line.
When I saw him, I fell at his feet as if I were dead. Then he put his right hand on me and said, “Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last.
Then Isaiah boldly speaks about what God says. God said,
“I have spent time with you preaching about the kingdom. I know that none of you will ever see me again.
They will make fun of him and spit on him. They will whip him and kill him. Three days later he will rise from the dead!”
People give birth to people.
the twelve disciples? But one of you is a devil!”
If anyone loves the world
I watched as the Lamb broke open the sixth seal. There was a powerful earthquake. The sun turned black like the clothes people wear when they’re sad. Those clothes are made out of goat’s hair. The whole moon turned as red as blood.
Then the demon threw the man down in front of everybody. And it came out without hurting him.
And they begged Jesus again and again not to order them to go into the Abyss.
Some of the visitors are Jews Others have accepted the Jewish faith
Jesus Teaches the Disciples and Crowds
I know that you always hear me
Go and learn what this means, ‘I want mercy and not sacrifice.’ I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me. I have come to get sinners to follow me.”
don’t be surprised by the terrible things happening to you. The trouble you are having has come to test you. So don’t feel as if something strange were happening to you.
Make room for us in your hearts.
No the Father himself loves you because you have loved me He also loves you because you have believed that I came from God
The next day Paul took the men with him They all made themselves pure and clean in the usual way Then Paul went to the temple
Look at my hands and my feet. It’s really me! Touch me and see. A ghost does not have a body or bones. But you can see that I do.”
Dont do anything only to get ahead Dont do it because you are proud Instead be humble Value others more than yourselves
Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in languages they had not known before? Do all explain what is said in those languages?
Your father Abraham was filled with joy at the thought of seeing my day He saw it and was glad
But no one laid a hand on him
Once the Pharisees asked Jesus when Gods kingdom would come He replied The coming of Gods kingdom is not something you can see
Ill get some glasses
Why
They could now see again Jesus strongly warned them Be sure that no one knows about this
They came out of the tombs. After Jesus was raised from the dead, they went into the holy city. There they appeared to many people.
“Sit at my right hand.
These stand for the seven spirits of God
My weapons have the power of God to destroy the camps of the enemy
You who are not Jews by birth, here is what I want you to remember.
You too must be patient
Tell them to try to please their masters.
“Have respect for God. Give him glory.
Aristarchus is in prison with me He sends you his greetings So does Mark the cousin of Barnabas
I ask you to receive her as one who belongs to the Lord
It was her brother Lazarus who was sick in bed
One of them was named Cleopas. He said to Jesus, “Are you the only person visiting Jerusalem who doesn’t know? Don’t you know about the things that have happened there in the last few days?”
I didnt go up to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before I was
All the people were amazed. They said to each other, “What he says is amazing! With authority and power he gives orders to evil spirits. And they come out!”
Simon was one of them Jesus gave him the name Peter
Instead, a church leader must welcome people into his home. He must love what is good.
When you join yourself to a prostitute, you become one with her in body. Don’t you know this?
We always carry around the death of Jesus in our bodies In that way the life of Jesus can be shown in our bodies
Then they will understand the faith correctly.
They were given power to kill people by swords They could also use hunger sickness and the earths wild animals to kill
Hold on
Everyone will hate you because of me. But the one who remains strong in the faith will be saved.
Later, Isaac became Jacob’s father.
Paul Prays and Gives Thanks
They came to the home of the synagogue leader. There Jesus saw a lot of confusion. People were crying and sobbing loudly.
Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. But anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. A person like that won’t be forgiven either now or in days to come.
Hey you! Please wait.
“Don’t collect any more than you are required to,”
I will pay them back.”  Scripture also says, “The Lord will judge his people.”
It had seven heads and ten horns On its seven heads it wore seven crowns
or hard times
But you are a man of God. Run away from all these things. Try hard to do what is right and godly. Have faith, love and gentleness. Hold on to what you believe.
All day long I have held out my hands
The whole law is fulfilled by obeying this one command Love your neighbor as you love yourself
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem I went there to get to know Peter I stayed with him for  days
Here is what love is.
I want to lose weight.
I am the bright Morning Star.”
It is my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven.
Pray for us too. Pray that God will give us an opportunity to preach our message. Then we can preach the mystery of Christ. Because I preached it, I am being held by chains.
We arrived at Miletus the next day.
You will not leave me in the place of the dead
The Lords eyes look on godly people and he blesses them
The goal is to even things out.
He made it through these attacks by sinners So think about him Then you wont get tired You wont lose hope
I have learned to be content no matter what happens to me.
It will not be like the covenant I made with their people of long ago.
Now they are telling our people about Jesus.
God didnt choose us to receive his anger
What goes into someone’s mouth does not make them ‘unclean.’ It’s what comes out of their mouth that makes them ‘unclean.’ ”
was given to her to wear
Anyone who welcomes them shares in their evil work.
He asked, “Why are you crying? Why are you breaking my heart?
They brought us to Mnason’s home.
No one on the housetop should go down into the house to take anything out.
Then he sent them out to announce God’s kingdom and to heal those who were sick.
As a result, Liang Shi was unable to solve the test።
Again Jesus said, “May peace be with you! The Father has sent me. So now I am sending you.”
And the scroll of Isaiah the prophet was handed to him.
But each person is tempted by their own evil desires These desires lead them on and drag them away
When the voice had spoken, they found that Jesus was alone. The disciples kept quiet about this. They didn’t tell anyone at that time what they had seen.
All nations will be blessed because of you
We were all baptized by one Holy Spirit. And so we are formed into one body. It didn’t matter whether we were Jews or Gentiles, slaves or free people.
The Purpose of John’s Gospel
But the dragon wasn’t strong enough. Both he and his angels lost their place in heaven.
Mark my son in the faith also sends you his greetings
When I saw her I was very amazed
“We are going up to Jerusalem,” he said. “The Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will sentence him to death.
“Why? What wrong has he done?” asked Pilate.
When he has done that the Son also will be under Gods rule God put everything under the Son
Jesus’ Family Returns to Nazareth
After this, Jesus and his disciples went out into the countryside of Judea. There he spent some time with them. And he baptized people there.
and he obeyed them.
Two Kinds of Wisdom
As he left he made them a promise If God wants me to he said I will come back
Then those who are in Judea should escape to the mountains.
Come,
And they begged Jesus again and again not to order them to go into the Abyss
He trusted me with that good news.
The parts that we think are less important we treat with special honor The private parts arent shown But they are treated with special care
“ ‘Because no one has hired us,’ they answered.
At once they left their nets and followed him.
He replied, “The man they call Jesus made some mud and put it on my eyes. He told me to go to Siloam and wash.
And I wont brag about work done by others If I did I would be bragging more than I should As your faith continues to grow I hope that my work among you will greatly increase
If you do what is right, you won’t need to be afraid of your rulers. But watch out if you do what is wrong! You don’t want to be afraid of those in authority, do you? Then do what is right, and you will be praised.
Otherwise, they will tear the new clothes.
Jesus became a servant of the Jews He did this so that the Gentiles might give glory to God for his mercy It is written
Which do you want? Should I come to you to correct and punish you? Or should I come in love and with a gentle spirit?
Jesus called them together He said You know about the rulers of the Gentiles They hold power over their people Their high officials order them around
Get Abrham.
He appeared to James Then he appeared to all the apostles
The hour has come for God to judge
But make up your mind not to worry ahead of time about how to stand up for yourselves
The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea. It turned into blood like the blood of a dead person. Every living thing in the sea died.
Jesus Chooses the Twelve Apostles
Then Philip began with that same part of Scripture
Adam was the son of God
They will weep and mourn.
But you are not ruled by the power of sin Instead the Holy Spirit rules over you
So you kill.
So people who are dying will be fooled by this evil These people are dying because they refuse to love the truth The truth would save them
He must not push people around
The man who had received five bags of gold brought the other five Master he said you trusted me with five bags of gold See I have earned five more
Then Jesus told them a story
He uses his powerful word to hold all things together
I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. After that, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel. He is the one who had been showing me these things.
The disciples answered, “We have only five loaves of bread and two fish.
He will come and kill them. He will give the vineyard to others.”
It will lead to the time when God will give you his glory
If your gift is serving then serve If it is teaching then teach
I was on the island of Patmos
Your heart will be where your riches are
When did it happen? Was it after Abraham was circumcised, or before? It was before he was circumcised, not after!
It is planted without honor. But it is raised in glory. It is planted in weakness. But it is raised in power.
The Lord knows who his own people are
Herod saw that the death of James pleased some Jews. So he arrested Peter also. This happened during the Feast of Unleavened Bread.
I, Paul, am writing this letter. Silas and Timothy join me in writing.
He wore a gold crown on his head
There should not be even a hint of sexual sin among you. Don’t do anything impure. And do not always want more and more. These are not the things God’s holy people should do.
They will act as if they were serving God
I don't like movies.
But make up your mind not to worry ahead of time about how to stand up for yourselves.
I'm young.
I need to get a stamp.
Two others are still coming.
“I told them that this is not the way Romans do things. We don’t judge people before they have faced those bringing charges against them. They must have a chance to argue against the charges for themselves.
That was because he was teaching his disciples He said to them The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men They will kill him After three days he will rise from the dead
Then I will be sad about many who sinned earlier and have not turned away from it They have not turned away from uncleanness sexual sins and wild living They have done all those things
Then Death and Hell were thrown into the lake of fire. The lake of fire is the second death.
The next day he called the court together He ordered Paul to be brought to him
Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he took a little child and had the child stand beside him.
Why isn't that good?
Be on your guard. Remain strong in the faith. Be brave.
So no more bragging about human leaders All things are yours
Then after a little while you will see me
People have to die once. After that, God will judge them.
Simon the Evil Magician
Do not call anyone on earth ‘father.’ You have one Father, and he is in heaven.
So they built a fire and welcomed all of us.
‘I warn
They asked, “Who is like the beast?
God has given you grace that is better than anything
People shouted at him and made fun of him.
Remember the command our Lord and Savior gave through your apostles
Just as there is an earthly body there is also a spiritual body
Elijah and Moses appeared in front of Jesus and his disciples The two of them were talking with Jesus
Thats just what I was doing in Jerusalem
But God trains us for our good. He does this so we may share in his holiness.
We know that all that God created has been groaning It is in pain as if it were giving birth to a child The created world continues to groan even now
Tell her to help me
Go and show yourself to the priest
The kingdom of heaven is like treasure that was hidden in a field
He said to the disciple, “Here is your mother.” From that time on, the disciple took her into his home.
And the scroll of Isaiah the prophet was handed to him. Jesus unrolled it and found the right place. There it is written,
Why do you stare at us Its not as if weve made this man walk by our own power or godliness
he did not open his mouth
Thats an example for the present time It shows us that the gifts and sacrifices people offered were not enough They were not able to remove the worshipers feelings of guilt
You have been separated from Christ.
For me life finds all its meaning in Christ
Also if the trumpet call isnt clear who will get ready for battle
Don’t we have the right to eat and drink?
Why is my freedom being judged by what someone else thinks?
It will not be you speaking. The Spirit of your Father will be speaking through you.
I have come here from God.
Some of the believers were Pharisees. They stood up and said, “The Gentiles must be circumcised. They must obey the law of Moses.”
I want to remind you about some things you already know. The Lord saved his people. At one time he brought them out of Egypt. But later he destroyed those who did not believe.
It does not easily become angry.
We are not living out the truth.
Welcome others into your homes without complaining
That’s how we know that these are the last days.
The Lamb broke open the fifth seal I saw souls under the altar They were the souls of people who had been killed They had been killed because of Gods word and their faithful witness
But the commander wanted to save Paul’s life. So he kept the soldiers from carrying out their plan.
You rich people, listen to me.
It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day Why are you doing it
The Jews of Corinth got together and attacked Paul.
A single man is concerned about the Lords matters He wants to know how he can please the Lord
Is everyone a teacher
We will share what Christ receives.
this happens in front of unbelievers!
At midnight someone cried out Heres the groom Come out to meet him
Every eye will see him.Even those who pierced him will see him.
“What do you have to say about him?” they asked. “It was your eyes he opened.”
There were people who were not killed by these plagues.
outside is everyone who loves and does what is false
His body shone like lightning His clothes were as white as snow
And be thankful
And we announce to you this same eternal life.
Then Jesus said to them, “
An evil and unfaithful people look for a sign But none will be given to them except the sign of Jonah Then Jesus left them and went away
And let us not give up meeting together Some are in the habit of doing this Instead let us encourage one another with words of hope Let us do this even more as you see Christs return approaching
Thats also why you pay taxes The authorities serve God Ruling takes up all their time
He slipped me a note
God has made a great many promises. They are all “Yes” because of what Christ has done.
The disciples went and did what Jesus told them to do.
Then what is written will come true. It says, “Death has been swallowed up. It has lost the battle.”
We know that the law is good if it is used properly.
But be careful how you use your rights. Be sure you don’t cause someone weaker than you to fall into sin.
What Im about to tell you is true
we will live and do this or that.”
Others were saying that Elijah had appeared. Still others were saying that a prophet of long ago had come back to life.
Don’t pay back evil with evil.
But even Michael, the leader of the angels, didn’t dare to say these things. He didn’t even say these things when he argued with the devil about the body of Moses. Michael didn’t dare to judge the devil. He didn’t say the devil was guilty of saying evil things. Instead, Michael said, “May the Lord judge you!”
I serve God
After Pilate gave him permission Joseph cameand took the body away
They teach nothing but human rules.’ ”
“Sir,” the disabled man replied, “I have no one to help me into the pool when an angel stirs up the water.
This plan pleased the whole group. They chose Stephen. He was full of faith and of the Holy Spirit. Philip, Procorus, Nicanor, Timon and Parmenas were chosen too. The group also chose Nicolas from Antioch. He had accepted the Jewish faith.
Just then Moses and Elijah appeared in front of them. Moses and Elijah were talking with Jesus.
The disciples asked him, “Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah has to come first?”
How can I he said I need someone to explain it to me
Anyone who has my commands and obeys them loves me. My Father will love the one who loves me. I too will love them. And I will show myself to them.”
But he did not raise him if the dead are not raised.
Then don’t take them into your house or welcome them.
Remember Alexander the one who works with metal He did me a great deal of harm
Jesus said to them, “I did one miracle, and you are all amazed.
Then I heard a voice coming from the four corners of the golden altar. The altar stands in front of God.
Im writing because you do know it Im writing to you because no lie comes from the truth
They walk around in the darkness.
Jesus said to them, “You will certainly drink from my cup. But it is not for me to say who will sit at my right or left hand. These places belong to those my Father has prepared them for.”
A large group of people followed. They crowded around him.
The Lord’s Supper
He took it literally.
He happened to be chosen in the usual way to go into the temple of the Lord There he was supposed to burn incense
Our parents trained us for a little while. They did what they thought was best. But God trains us for our good. He does this so we may share in his holiness.
Watch out for false prophets They come to you pretending to be sheep But on the inside they are hungry wolves
You have kept my command to remain strong in the faith no matter what happens. So I will keep you from the time of suffering. That time is going to come to the whole world. It will test those who live on the earth.
But our spirits are being renewed day by day
But just as sure as God is faithful our message to you is not Yes and No
Now he has come here to arrest all those who worship you. The chief priests have given him authority to do this.”
I am free and don’t belong to anyone. But I have made myself a slave to everyone. I do it to win as many as I can to Christ.
Jesus strongly warned them not to tell this to anyone
Yes they replied
The man who used to attack us has changed
Whoever wants to follow me must say no to them.
This is how it will be on judgment day. The angels will come. They will separate the people who did what is wrong from those who did what is right.
But Gods word continued to spread and many people believed the message
Save others by pulling them out of the fire. To others, show mercy mixed with fear of sin. Hate even the clothes that are stained by the sins of those who wear them.
As she cried, she bent over to look into the tomb.
The royal official said, “Sir, come down before my child dies.”
Then Jesus turned around and saw them following. He asked, “What do you want?”
Forgive one another if you are holding something against someone
The wall was made out of jasper
Jesus answered them, “Healthy people don’t need a doctor. Sick people do.
Most of all everyone should take care of their own family If they dont they have left the faith
“Who touched me?” Jesus asked.
Every spirit agreeing that Jesus Christ came in a human body belongs to God.
Jesus knew who was going to hand him over to his enemies That was why he said not every one was clean
People have to die once
Simon watched as the apostles placed their hands on them He saw that the Spirit was given to them So he offered money to Peter and John
It is written
But the rest of the people were made stubborn.
Don‘t be proud at all. Be completely gentle. Be patient. Put up with one another in love.
The angel measured the wall as human beings measure things
Some of the believers were Pharisees They stood up and said
We have heard him
I believe that people will rise from the dead. That’s why I am on trial.”
If I preached that then the cross wouldnt upset anyone
There is no gift of the Holy Spirit that you dont have You are full of hope as you wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to come again
The friends here send their greetings Greet each one of the friends there
He said to them Cant you understand yet
A female servant saw him sitting there in the firelight She looked closely at him Then she said This man was with Jesus
This all happened at Bethany on the other side of the Jordan River That was where John was baptizing
And you were raised to life together with him when you were baptized. You were raised to life by believing in God’s work. God himself raised Jesus from the dead.
Brothers and sisters suppose I were to come to you and speak in other languages What good would I be to you
While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit spoke. “Set apart Barnabas and Saul for me,” he said. “I have appointed them to do special work.”
Has Christ ever been gentle and loving toward you
They wanted a heavenly one So God is pleased when they call him their God
You know about my faith
So also we are many persons But in Christ we are one body And each part of the body belongs to all the other parts
Nathanael replied Rabbi you are the Son of God You are the king of Israel
There is no slave or free person
Jesus replied You dont realize now what I am doing
They put it down at the apostles’ feet.
“I tell you, do not worry. Don’t worry about your life and what you will eat or drink. And don’t worry about your body and what you will wear. Isn’t there more to life than eating? Aren’t there more important things for the body than clothes?
One day Peter and John were going up to the temple It was three oclock in the afternoon
Has he done anything wrong to you? Does he owe you anything? Then charge it to me.
You preach against stealing But you steal
I will know that you work together as one person I will know that you work to spread the teachings about the good news
In the following matters, I don’t praise you. Your meetings do more harm than good.
Thats because when Melchizedek met Abraham Levi was still in Abrahams body
I have not stopped thanking God for you. I always remember you in my prayers.
A prophet is not accepted in his hometown
Christ has accepted you So accept one another in order to bring praise to God
No But what is sacrificed by those who worship statues of gods is really sacrificed to demons It is not sacrificed to God I dont want you to be sharing with demons
Just like Melchizedek.”
Then he said This is what Ill do I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones
“Before Abraham was born, I am!”
You have not accepted the teachings of the false prophets.
A church leader takes care of God’s family. That’s why he must be without blame. He must not look after only his own interests. He must not get angry easily. He must not get drunk. He must not push people around. He must not try to get money by cheating people.
Some of the Pharisees said, “Jesus has not come from God. He does not keep the Sabbath day.”
If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. Your hand is only one part of your body. It is better to lose a hand than for your whole body to go into hell.Divorce
Pergamum,
In nignity nignity two something came to haunt the young mans dreams in the fiscal calendar።
Then Paul said to him, “You pretender! God will hit you! You sit there and judge me by the law.
The vultures will gather wherever there is a dead body
But here is the bread that comes down from heaven A person can eat it and not die
I will get up and go back to my father. I will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven. And I have sinned against you.
The King will reply What Im about to tell you is true Anything you did for one of the least important of these brothers and sisters of mine you did for me
I do not fear death.
“ ‘Get up,’ the Lord said. ‘Go into Damascus. There you will be told everything you have been given to do.’
They no longer followed him
“But the tax collector stood farther away than the Pharisee. He would not even look up to heaven. He brought his hand to his heart and prayed. He said, ‘God, have mercy on me. I am a sinner.’
Everyone says good things about Demetrius
When they were in the house again the disciples asked Jesus about this
Then Jesus cried out Whoever believes in me does not believe in me only They also believe in the one who sent me
And Im sure I myself will come soon if the Lord allows it
The Jews and the Law
Peter went outside. He broke down and cried,The Guards Make Fun of Jesus
Dear children,
“Their mouths are full of curses and bitterness.”
Jesus replied, “If I bring glory to myself, my glory means nothing. You claim that my Father is your God. He is the one who brings glory to me.
I’ll do it even though you now have deep roots in the truth.
Peter was also standing with them He was warming himself
There may be so-called gods either in heaven or on earth.
These actions include signs, wonders and miracles.
What do you have that you did not receive
“Come!” And the person who hears should say,
Live like this as you look forward to the day of God. Living like this will make the day come more quickly. On that day fire will destroy the heavens. Its heat will melt everything in them.
Mattathias was the son of Semein.
Pilate came out to them. He asked, “What charges are you bringing against this man?”
Because of their faith they took over kingdoms
In this way the words Jeremiah the prophet spoke came true He had said
Pauls Reasons for Giving Instructions to Timothy
Serve your masters with all your heart Work as serving the Lord and not as serving people
They were delighted and agreed to give him money.
But I am not I have been sold to be a slave of sin
You have been brought from death to life So give every part of yourself to God to do what is right
Many people who live on the earth will worship the beast. They are the ones whose names are not written in the Lamb’s book of life. The Lamb is the one whose death was planned before the world was created.
because God is love
I will praise you among the Gentiles
Even so, I am glad.
No one who wants to be well known does things in secret. Since you are doing these things, show yourself to the world.” Even Jesus’ own brothers did not believe in him.
Jesus Raises a Widows Son From the Dead
Everyone who heard him was amazed at how much he understood. They also were amazed at his answers.
But Festus wanted to do the Jews a favor So he said to Paul Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem Are you willing to go on trial there Are you willing to face these charges in my court
So it doesn’t depend on what people want or what they do. It depends on God’s mercy.
“So those who are last will be first. And those who are first will be last.”
“When a strong man is completely armed and guards his house, what he owns is safe.
The whole creation was speaking
They can’t go on sinning. That’s because they are God’s children.
Brothers and sisters you are not in darkness So that day should not surprise you as a thief would
Suppose someone refuses to accept our teaching
There is nothing in them to make them fall into sin
Should we pay or shouldnt we
In that way,“ ‘They will see but never know what they are seeing.They will hear but never understand.Otherwise they might turn and be forgiven!’ ”
They will turn against their friends. They will act without thinking. They will think they are better than others. They will love what pleases them instead of loving God.
The men traveling with Saul stood there. They weren’t able to speak. They had heard the sound. But they didn’t see anyone.
And you know that no murderer has eternal life
The man believed what Jesus said and so he left
He has seated us with him in his heavenly kingdom. That’s because we belong to Christ Jesus.
Also, if the trumpet call isn’t clear, who will get ready for battle?
Then Pilate took Jesus and had him whipped
Warnings About Saying No to the Son
Would you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes Would you say Heres a good seat for you Would you say to the poor man You stand there Or Sit on the floor by my feet
My friends he said you know that we make good money from our work
“A good tree doesn’t bear bad fruit.
Joshua was the son of Eliezer.
I will sing your praises among those who worship you.”
In just one hour your great wealth has been destroyed!’
“ ‘How terrible! How terrible it is for you, great city!
I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet. So you also should wash one another’s feet.
They brought him into court.
They were very upset by what the apostles were teaching the people. The apostles were saying that people can be raised from the dead. They said this can happen because Jesus rose from the dead.
There’s nothing else we can do. We have to speak about the things we’ve seen and heard.”
It's free.
He was raised to life in order to make us right with God.
The leaders ordered them not to speak in Jesus name Then they let the apostles go
My food is to finish his work
But it is hard to make it clear to you Thats because you are no longer trying to understand
But Zacchaeus stood up. He said, “Look, Lord! Here and now I give half of what I own to those who are poor. And if I have cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay it back. I will pay back four times the amount I took.”
He planned to bring both Jews and Gentiles back to God as one body. He planned to do this through the cross.
It doesnt go into their heart It goes into their stomach Then it goes out of the body In saying this Jesus was calling all foods clean
Peter sent them all out of the room. Then he got down on his knees and prayed. He turned toward the dead woman. He said, “Tabitha, get up.” She opened her eyes. When she saw Peter, she sat up.
When they found him, they tried to keep him from leaving them.
Their chests were covered with something that looked like armor made out of iron. The sound of their wings was like the thundering of many horses and chariots rushing into battle.
May our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus do this.
The praise that matters for that kind of person does not come from other people It comes from God
Then your whole body also is full of light
Here is what God said to him. ‘
I will come to you
I want you to know that our brother Timothy has been set free.
So Aeneas got up right away.
You have heard that it was said An eye must be put out for an eye A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth
But suppose another priest like Melchizedek appears. Then what we have said is even more clear.
Jesus Pays the Temple Tax
If the dead are not raised then Christ has not been raised either
They will hate what is good.
On the next Sabbath day, almost the whole city gathered. They gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
It was the same with the third one.
After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven. He had great authority. His glory filled the earth with light.
At that time Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee John baptized Jesus in the Jordan River
You are citizens together with God’s people.
A storm came down on the lake
So is the law opposed to God’s promises? Certainly not! What if a law had been given that could give life? Then people could become right with God by obeying the law.
I have been bragging about it to the people in Macedonia
So you argue and fight.
“Listen! A farmer went out to plant his seed.
The Authority of Jesus Is Questioned
Your word is truth.
They ran off and reported it in the town and countryside
So dont let sin rule your body which is going to die Dont obey its evil desires
I hate you.
He isnt like other people
Suppose people from Macedonia come with me and find out that you are not prepared Then we as well as you would be ashamed of being so certain
In the same way Abraham believed God God was pleased with Abraham because he believed
The crowd realized that Jesus and his disciples were not there So they got into boats and went to Capernaum to look for Jesus
we can be bold with God.
But it is raised as a spiritual body
As Jesus started on his way a man ran up to him He fell on his knees before Jesus Good teacher he said what must I do to receive eternal life
A man should not cover his head He is the likeness and glory of God But woman is the glory of man
I’m glad when I am weak but you are strong. I pray that there will be no more problems among you.
Brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the grace that God has given to the churches in Macedonia.
If so, the host who invited both of you will come to you. He will say, ‘Give this person your seat.’ Then you will be filled with shame. You will have to take the least important place.
They were set free to kill a third of all people
But we want to hear what your ideas are
I had seen an angel standing on the sea and on the land
The other servants saw what had happened and were very angry They went and told their master everything that had happened
The Disciples’ Sadness Will Turn Into Joy
If a kingdom fights against itself it cant stand
I dont dare to compare myself with those who praise themselves Im not that kind of person
If you live under the power of sin you will die But by the Spirits power you can put to death the sins you commit Then you will live
The promised Spirit comes by believing in Christ
They brought the colt to Jesus They threw their coats over it Then he sat on it
In the very same way, these ungodly people act on their evil dreams. So they make their own bodies impure. They don’t accept authority. And they say evil things against heavenly beings.
The only Father we have is God himself
From the tribe of Zebulun tewelve thousend
Titus was with me He was a Greek But even he was not forced to be circumcised
If you greet only your own people, what more are you doing than others? Even people who are ungodly do that.
Some of the teachers of the law who were Pharisees stood up They argued strongly
There is no fear in love.
But no one at the meal understood why Jesus said this to him.
You have been set free from sin God has made you his slaves
Then all the churches will know that I search hearts and minds.
But build one another up every day Do it as long as there is still time Then none of you will become stubborn You wont be fooled by sins tricks
Some of the Pharisees in the crowd spoke to Jesus Teacher they said tell your disciples to stop
This is how the holy women of the past used to make them beautiful They put their hope in God And they followed the lead of their own husbands
This will happen no matter who has done it
Then she turned around and saw Jesus standing there. But she didn’t realize that it was Jesus.
They brought their charges against Paul to the governor
Be joyful with those who are joyful.
I pray for them. I am not praying for the world.
He wrote about me.
you have seen him
Suddenly Jesus met them. “Greetings!” he said. They came to him, took hold of his feet and worshiped him.
But Pauls nephew heard about this plan So he went into the fort and told Paul
You make the word of God useless by putting your own teachings in its place. And you do many things like this.”
Just as there is one loaf, so we who are many are one body.
You are a priest forever
“Tell me, teacher,” he said.
Jesus replied A certain man was preparing a great banquet He invited many guests
But he said, “I must announce the good news of God’s kingdom to the other towns also.
He came to my rescue
‘Your brother has come home,’ the servant replied. ‘Your father has killed the fattest calf. He has done this because your brother is back safe and sound.’
As she cried she bent over to look into the tomb
The woman escaped into the desert where God had a place prepared for her. There she would be taken care of for one thousennd two hundred sixity days.
Be joyful
Those things happened to them as examples for us They were written down to warn us Thats because we are living at the time when Gods work is being completed
Here is how someone can find out whether my teaching comes from God or from me.
If I preach because I want to, I get a reward.
“Is this your son?” they asked. “Is this the one you say was born blind? How is it that now he can see?”
Serve your masters with all your heart. Work as serving the Lord and not as serving people.
They are spirits of demons that perform signs
And Jesus, who makes people holy, and the people he makes holy belong to the same family.
The people were told they could leave the service. Many Jews followed Paul and Barnabas.
He gave orders to stop the chariot. Then both Philip and the official went down into the water. Philip baptized him.
“King Agrippa,” he said, “I am happy to be able to stand here today. I will answer all the charges brought against me by the Jews.
You say I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebul Then by whose power do your people drive them out So then they will be your judges
Who is he sir the man asked Tell me so I can believe in him
Now I want to deal with the things you wrote me about. Some of you say, “It is good for a man not to sleep with a woman.”
All creatures in heaven, on earth, under the earth, and on the sea were speaking.
Paul Has Joy When the Church Turns Away From Sin
Because I was sure of this, I wanted to visit you first. Here is how I thought you would be helped twice.
Their bodies will lie in the main street of the great city. It is also the city where their Lord was nailed to a cross. The city is sometimes compared to Sodom or Egypt.
If you do not judge other people then you will not be judged
The rest were supposed to get there on boards or other pieces of the ship. That is how everyone reached land safely.
The governor and Bernice and those sitting with them stood up too.
Then they went home There they prepared spices and perfumes But they rested on the Sabbath day in order to obey the Law
Those who think they know something still dont know as they should
Crispus was the synagogue leader. He and everyone living in his house came to believe in the Lord.
When the owner of the vineyard comes back what will he do to those renters
They stirred up the crowds and got them all worked up
Jesus Raises Lazarus from the Dead
Susanna and many others were there also
Where do you?
He still could not speak.
So you are witnesses against yourselves You admit that you are the children of those who murdered the prophets
So they took him and killed him They threw him out of the vineyard
He approached Bethphage and Bethany The hill there was called the Mount of Olives Jesus sent out two of his disciples He said to them
What if some people fall away from the faith It wont be possible to bring them back
Your heart will be where your riches are.
and he to us.
He makes the whole body grow and build itself up in love Under the control of Christ each part of the body does its work It supports the other parts In that way the body is joined and held together
Instead, they put it on a stand. Then those who come in can see its light.
Scripture says, “Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw.” Scripture also says, “Workers are worthy of their pay.”
The Faith of a Woman From Canaan
Jesus Christ was born as we are, and he died on the cross. He wasn’t just born as we are. He also died on the cross. The Holy Spirit is a truthful witness about him. That’s because the Spirit is the truth.
Warnings From Israel’s History
But when you ask, you must believe. You must not doubt. That’s because a person who doubts is like a wave of the sea. The wind blows and tosses them around.
They will turn to stories that arent true
And the dragon and his angels fought back.
Then the voice I had heard from heaven spoke to me again.
Jesus went across the Sea of Galilee in a boat It landed at the other side There a large crowd gathered around him
All the birds stuffed themselves with the dead bodies
I'm going to the park.
Here is what I mean.
We work hard with our own hands
But God chose you to be his people. You are royal priests. You are a holy nation.
God promised that those people would never enjoy the rest he planned for them
So you aren’t a slave any longer. You are God’s child. Because you are his child, God gives you the rights of those who are his children.
He became the father of two sons there.
But we are citizens of heaven.
It was a cave with a stone in front of the entrance
Think how great Melchizedek was!
The second one got married to the widow He also died and left no child
It used the commandment to put me to death
One of them was named Agabus. He stood up and spoke through the Spirit.
But make sure that in your hearts you honor Christ as Lord. Always be ready to give an answer to anyone who asks you about the hope you have. Be ready to give the reason for it. But do it gently and with respect.
The man answered, “That is really surprising! You don’t know where he comes from
He came to my rescue.
When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized too.
How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree? We are the temple of the living God. God has said,
She was a widow
I forgot to ask him
The people were told they could leave the service Many Jews followed Paul and Barnabas
Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane He said to them Sit here while I go over there and pray
We sailed across the open sea off the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia Then we landed at Myra in Lycia
Christ has paid the price for you.
And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
The king came in to see the guests He noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes
But the Pharisees didn’t understand what he was telling them.
Their beliefs and way of life are not worth anything at all
My dear children
The whole creation was speaking.
Judas, son of James and Judas Iscariot who would later hand Jesus over to his enemies
But Jesus did not fully trust them. He knew what people are like.
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were very angry They began to talk to one another about what they might do to Jesus
Whoever speaks on their own does it to get personal honor
That is why he was given his crown
Instead, be joyful that you are taking part in Christ’s sufferings.
About tewelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
Don’t just listen to the word. You fool yourselves if you do that. You must do what it says.
They cant understand the truth They are separated from the life of God Thats because they dont know him And they dont know him because their hearts are stubborn
Elihud was the father of Eleazar.Eleazar was the father of Matthan.Matthan was the father of Jacob.
Instead I received it from Jesus Christ He showed it to me
He jumped to his feet and began to walk.
“Do you see these huge buildings?” Jesus asked. “Not one stone here will be left on top of another. Every stone will be thrown down.”
The Church and Its Leaders
But suppose someone takes a good look at the perfect law that gives freedom. And they keep looking at it.
Then he put the mud on the man’s eyes.
After he had said this, Jesus’ spirit was troubled. He said, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
Jesus knew what they were saying So he asked them Why are you talking about having no bread Why cant you see or understand Are you stubborn
I promised to give you to only one husband. That husband is Christ. I wanted to be able to give you to him as if you were a pure virgin.
A husband should satisfy his wifes needs
I will always be secure.
He was hoping that Paul would offer him some money to let him go. So he often sent for Paul and talked with him.
They are like a man who builds a house on soft ground instead of solid rockThe moment the river rushes against that house it falls down
Some places may not welcome you or listen to you. If they don’t, leave that place and shake the dust off your feet. That will be a witness against the people living there.”
As the men were leaving Jesus Peter spoke up
This is the first resurrection.
He saw Jesus walking by. John said, “Look! The Lamb of God!”
The appointed day came. Herod was seated on his throne. He was wearing his royal robes. He made a speech to the people.
Be watchful, so that you can pray. Always keep on praying for all the Lord’s people.
So I tell you when you pray for something believe that you have already received it Then it will be yours
Fine linen bright and clean
Warn anyone who tries to get believers to separate from one another Warn that person more than once After that have nothing to do with them
They came together in Galilee Then Jesus said to them The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men
But the commandment gave sin an opportunity. Sin caused me to want all kinds of things that belong to others.
We are also sending another one of our brothers with them He has often proved to us in many ways that he is very committed He is now even more committed because he has great faith in you
Christ has set us free to enjoy our freedom
So they decided to use the money to buy a potters field People from other countries would be buried there
as white as snow.
It will guide our feet on the path of peace
He is not weak in dealing with you He is powerful among you
He has two daughters.
Abrahams son by the slave woman was born in the usual way But his son by the free woman was born because of Gods promise
I am the God of Abraham I am the God of Isaac And I am the God of Jacob
All of this was done in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ
we will be like the heavenly man.
When the devil finished all this tempting he left Jesus until a better time
He rules over what God has created. He says,
There he found a disabled man named Aeneas. For eight years the man had spent most of his time in bed.
But his mother kept all these things like a secret treasure in her heart
His grace teaches us to say no to godless ways and sinful desires
You who are not Jews by birth here is what I want you to remember
You always show me the path that leads to life
Cornelius and all his family were faithful and worshiped God
Her body was washed and placed in a room upstairs.
The news about Jesus spread throughout the whole area.
Instead warn them as you would warn another believer
Then he told her, “That was a good reply. You may go. The demon has left your daughter.”
At one time you were in the dark. But now you are in the light because of what the Lord has done. Live like children of the light.
In the inner circle around the throne were four living creatures They were covered with eyes in front and in back
God’s gift can’t be compared with Adam’s sin. Many people died because of the sin of that one man. But it was even surer that God’s grace would also come through one man. That man is Jesus Christ. God’s gift of grace was more than enough for the whole world.
I am very pleased with you.”
Don’t be fooled.
They were spending many days there
He will give himself power over everything
God did not spare angels when they sinned. Instead, he sent them to hell. He chained them up in dark prisons. He will keep them there until he judges them.
So Judas came to the garden. He was guiding a group of soldiers and some officials. The chief priests and the Pharisees had sent them. They were carrying torches, lanterns and weapons.
So Paul motioned with his hand Then he began to present his case
and praised God.
The kingdom of the beast became very dark.
Then Jesus said, “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never go hungry. And whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.
Who were those who heard and refused to obey?
Forgive one another, just as God forgave you because of what Christ has done.
God didnt turn his back on his people
Write about what is happening now
He said to me
They had heard the sound But they didnt see anyone
But the one who remains strong in the faith will be saved
and what will happen later.
They all gave a lot because they are rich. But she gave even though she is poor. She put in everything she had. That was all she had to live on.”
But you are not ruled by the power of sin. Instead, the Holy Spirit rules over you.
Remember what I told you I said A slave is not more important than his master
We give thanks for the cup at the Lords Supper When we do arent we sharing in the blood of Christ When we break the bread arent we sharing in the body of Christ
What really counts is that the new creation has come.
Remember, you don’t give life to the root. The root gives life to you.
Paul traveled through Syria and Cilicia. He gave strength to the churches there.
Dear friends, now we are children of God. He still hasn’t let us know what we will be. But we know that when Christ appears, we will be like him. That’s because we will see him as he really is.
Read this
Jesus Is the Great High Priest
On that day the church in Jerusalem began to be attacked and treated badly. All except the apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria.
Paul stayed in Corinth for some time. Then he left the brothers and sisters and sailed for Syria.
All these things will happen when he comes. On that day his glory will be seen in his holy people. Everyone who has believed will be amazed when they see him. This includes you, because you believed the witness we gave you.
Night and day I thank God for you. Night and day I always remember you in my prayers.
Paul was waiting for Silas and Timothy in Athens. He was very upset to see that the city was full of statues of gods.
The demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs
I am okay.
“Do not gather for yourselves riches on earth. Moths and rats can destroy them. Thieves can break in and steal them.
You will find that a prophet does not come out of Galilee
How did God answer him? God said, “I have kept
But I said this for the benefit of the people standing here I said it so they will believe that you sent me
The apostles watched until a cloud hid him from their sight
Peace and Hope
At that time each person will receive their praise from God
Jesus said to them Bring some of the fish you have just caught
It is written, ‘Do not speak evil about the ruler of your people.’ ”
They ask for a sign from God But none will be given except the sign of Jonah
It is the same with Christ
He said, “You Jews don’t claim that Paul has committed a great or small crime. If you did, it would make sense for me to listen to you.
Moses had faith. So he refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter. That happened after he had grown up.
But they themselves are slaves to sinful living
Not very far away, many women were watching. They had followed Jesus from Galilee to take care of his needs.
Some of Jesus disciples were talking about the temple They spoke about how it was decorated with beautiful stones and with gifts that honored God But Jesus asked
I’m afraid that when I come again my God will put me to shame in front of you.
Instead he was sent to a widow in Zarephath near Sidon
Since the days of John the Baptist, the kingdom of heaven has been under attack. And violent people are taking hold of it.
Brothers and sisters I have used myself and Apollos as examples to help you
Jesus left there and went to his hometown of Nazareth His disciples went with him
Where two or three people gather in my name, I am there with them.”
But you must not be like that Instead the most important among you should be like the youngest The one who rules should be like the one who serves
They will throw them into the blazing furnace There people will weep and grind their teeth
They aren’t saying a word to him.
They were carrying torches, lanterns and weapons.
Then that person is proud and doesnt understand anything
They can barely hear with their ears
I cleared the table.
Then he went up and touched the coffin
It will be like that with bodies that are raised from the dead.
God never said to any of the angels,
Jesus left there. He walked along the Sea of Galilee. Then he went up on a mountainside and sat down.
He said You Jews dont claim that Paul has committed a great or small crime If you did it would make sense for me to listen to you
But people treat us as if we were pretenders.
The flames separated and came to rest on each of them
As Jesus went along, he saw a man who was blind. He had been blind since he was born.
When they heard this they were amazed So they left him and went away
Every good and perfect gift is from God This kind of gift comes down from the Father who created the heavenly lights
The Greater Glory of the New Covenant
The Pharisees saw this. They said to Jesus, “Look! It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day. But your disciples are doing it anyway!”
It is for those who commit sexual sins.It is for those who commit homosexual acts.
But I didn’t want to do anything unless you agreed. Any favor you do must be done because you want to do it, not because you have to.
He replied, “Your faith is so small! Why are you so afraid?” Then Jesus got up and ordered the winds and the waves to stop. It became completely calm.
They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead
“What I am saying is true and reasonable.
Keep reminding God’s people of these things.
All the churches of Christ send their greetings.
Your faith in God has also become known everywhere
So you kill
Go he told him Wash in the Pool of Siloam
I destroy every claim and every reason that keeps people from knowing God. I keep every thought under control in order to make it obey Christ.
Your bragging is not good. It is like yeast. Don’t you know that just a little yeast makes the whole batch of dough rise?
Peter looked straight at him and so did John
Father I thank you for hearing me
Then he said to them, “So give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. And give back to God what belongs to God.”
It was the same for Christ He did not take for himself the glory of becoming a high priest But God said to him
Not at all! We have already claimed that Jews and Gentiles are sinners. Everyone is under the power of sin.
A cloth was around his face.
It is true that there are all kinds of languages in the world.
Jesus did not say a word. So his disciples came to him. They begged him, “Send her away. She keeps crying out after us.”
I’m talking about his eternal power and about the fact that he is God.
God didn’t give him any property here. He didn’t even give him enough land to set his foot on. But God made a promise to him and to all his family after him. He said they would possess the land. The promise was made even though at that time Abraham had no child.
I am afraid of dying
They will be destroyed forever
It is not that we loved God. It is that he loved us
Until I come spend your time reading Scripture out loud to one another
Run
Now the Lords hand is against you
So they went back and reported it
He takes away the message from their hearts. He does it so they won’t believe. Then they can’t be saved.
You do have choices
Rabboni Rabboni means Teacher
The sixth was made out of ruby
He has the power to bring everything under his control.
Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea. This happened while Herod was king of Judea. After Jesus’ birth, Wise Men from the east came to Jerusalem.
So be careful how you listen. Whoever has something will be given more.
From then on Pilate tried to set Jesus free
How terrible for you,
May the God who gives peace be with you all. Amen.
Everyones mouth will say that Jesus Christ is Lord
It is actually reported that there is sexual sin among you.
I will appoint my two witnesses. And they will prophesy for one thousend two hundred sixity days. They will be dressed in the rough clothes people wear when they’re sad.”
And I won’t brag about work done by others. If I did, I would be bragging more than I should. As your faith continues to grow, I hope that my work among you will greatly increase.
Right away he praised God
I wont do this again
Have any of the rulers or Pharisees believed in him
How can Christ and Satan agrees
the way you judge is true and fair
“No one is right with God, no one at all.
Since all this is true wont the work of the Holy Spirit be even more glorious
And you are proud! Shouldn’t you be very sad instead?
Dogs bark.
When his death was near he spoke about where to bury his bones
“Two people owed money to a certain lender.
He answered, “What if a man divorces his wife and gets married to another woman? He commits adultery against her.
But Jesus remained silent
The people expected him to swell up. They thought he would suddenly fall dead. They waited for a long time. But they didn’t see anything unusual happen to him. So they changed their minds. They said he was a god.
So the man sent another servant to the renters. They hit this one on the head and treated him badly.
Men, continue to be brave.
The second beast was allowed to give breath to this statue so it could speak The statue could kill all who refused to worship it
That is why I did not even think I was fit to come to you
You believe there is one God Good Even the demons believe that And they tremble
Now we can comfort others when they are in trouble We ourselves receive comfort from God
He asked them Who do the crowds say I am
Thats because it has been made impure by the desire for things that lead you astray
I want you to know that our brother Timothy has been set free
The second was made out of sapphire
But I might stay with you for a while I might even spend the winter Then you can help me on my journey everywhere I go
What is hidden will be seen
No one is right with God no one at all
Fallen Babylon the Great has fallen
Listen! You can hear the steps of the men who buried your husband. They are at the door.
So don’t live under the control of sin. If you do, you will think about what sin wants.
I am warning you brothers and sisters to watch out for those who try to keep you from staying together They want to trip you up They teach you things opposite to what you have learned Stay away from them
They fade away even as they go about their business
In the same way, Jesus has been found worthy of greater honor than Moses.
Let all the nations sing praises to him
I will speak about what Christ has done through me. I won’t try to speak about anything else.
Its the same with you
King Agrippa do you believe the prophets
Finally Paul became upset. Turning around, he spoke to the spirit that was in her. “In the name of Jesus Christ,” he said, “I command you to come out of her!”
“Watch and pray. Then you won’t fall into sin when you are tempted. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak.”
Several days later Felix came with his wife Drusilla. She was a Jew.
As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him,
I know my tent will soon be removed
You have come to the church of God’s people. God’s first and only Son is over all things.
One of you is going to hand me over to my enemies
I have said you are gods
A Prophet Without Honor
Your own people made you suffer. You went through the same things the church members in Judea suffered from the Jews.
When you do ask for something you dont receive it Thats because you ask for the wrong reason You want to spend your money on your sinful pleasures
peace and love be given to you.
John’s Disciples Follow Jesus
Havent you read the Law It tells how every Sabbath day the priests in the temple have to do their work on that day But they are not considered guilty
My brothers and sisters, when Christ died you also died as far as the law is concerned. Then it became possible for you to belong to him. He was raised from the dead. Now our lives can be useful to God.
Who is the fence you lifted?
Im not writing you a new command Instead Im writing one you have heard before
What I’m about to tell you is true. On judgment day it will be easier for Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town.
the one who pulls back.”
We stayed with them for a day.
He told them The secret of Gods kingdom has been given to you But to outsiders everything is told using stories
We all fell to the ground. I heard a voice speak to me in the Aramaic language. ‘Saul! Saul!’ it said. ‘Why are you opposing me?
Scripture says that God “has put everything under his control.”
They will walk with me dressed in white because they are worthy
the birth of Jesus the death of Jesus
Somewhere he spoke about the seventh day He said On the seventh day God rested from all his works
Then the woman fell to her knees in front of him. “Lord! Help me!” she said.
Also, a large number of priests began to obey Jesus’ teachings.
But suppose someone takes a good look at the perfect law that gives freedom And they keep looking at it
But his followers helped him escape by night They lowered him in a basket through an opening in the wall
The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle She was given these wings so that she could fly away
‘I am Jesus,’ the Lord replied. ‘I am the one you are opposing.
Still other seed fell on good soil
If he hadn’t, we would have become like Sodom.
But the angel said to them,
In the same way after supper he took the cup He said This cup is the new covenant in my blood
And the glory of the Lord shone around them.
Finally let the Lord make you strong Depend on his mighty power
While you have the light, believe in it. Then you can become children of light.” When Jesus had finished speaking, he left and hid from them.
What do you want me to do for you Jesus asked
Now I beg you to be brave. Not one of you will die. Only the ship will be destroyed.
He approached Jerusalem When he saw the city he began to weep
Then he said to all of them
They are an example of how to be patient when you suffer
If anyone is weak, I feel weak.
But it is not for your good.
Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah Tamar was their motherPerez was the father of HezronHezron was the father of Ram
God did all this to prove in our own time that he does what is right.
Other seed fell among thorns The thorns grew up and crowded out the plants
Wives follow the lead of your own husbands as you follow the Lord
They sang the song of Gods servant Moses and of the Lamb They sang
He himself had pointed out that a prophet is not respected in his own country.
Hold on to what we taught you
They will never see the glory of the Lords strength
Scripture says Do not say in your heart Who will go up into heaven
You will be filled with the fruit of right living produced by Jesus Christ. All these things bring glory and praise to God.
When there was no reason for hope, Abraham believed because he had hope. He became the father of many nations, exactly as God had promised. God said, “That is how many children you will have.”
And what is seed scattered on good soil like? The people hear the message. They accept it. They produce a good crop , , or even  times more than the farmer planted.”
You cant do that very little thing So why worry about the rest
So Joseph went also. He went from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea.
My children I will be with you only a little longer
But if the unbeliever leaves let that person go
Then some soldiers asked him
What Im about to tell you is true
I will never mourn.’
They were holding golden bowls full of incense They stand for the prayers of Gods people
But if you do marry someone you have not sinned And if a virgin marries someone she has not sinned But those who marry someone will have many troubles in this life I want to save you from this
Above his head they placed the written charge against him It read
We want you to be very strong in keeping with his glorious power We want you to be patient We pray that you will never give up
“The manager had not been honest. But the master praised him for being clever. The people of this world are clever in dealing with those who are like themselves. They are more clever than God’s people.
My dear brothers and sisters
So dont worry about tomorrow Tomorrow will worry about itself Each day has enough trouble of its own
How awful it will be in those days for pregnant women How awful for nursing mothers There will be terrible suffering in the land There will be great anger against those people
I served the Lord with tears and without pride. I served him when I was greatly tested. I was tested by the evil plans of the Jews who disagreed with me.
“But the father said to his servants, ‘Quick! Bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet.
This happens to all who believe
When they landed, they saw a fire of burning coals. There were fish on it.
All the people saw this. They began to whisper among themselves. They said, “Jesus has gone to be the guest of a sinner.”
But later on it produces a harvest of godliness and peace It does this for those who have been trained by it
Death ruled from the time of Adam to the time of Moses. Death ruled even over those who did not sin as Adam did. He broke God’s command. But Adam also became a pattern of the Messiah. The Messiah was the one who was going to come.
Gentiles do not have the law Sometimes they just naturally do what the law requires They are a law for themselves This is true even though they dont have the law
So the Pharisees also asked him how he was able to see. “He put mud on my eyes,” the man replied. “Then I washed. And now I can see.”
I saw a mighty angel calling out in a loud voice
When a man found it, he hid it again.He was very happy.
Then he went out to the gate leading into the courtyard There another servant saw him She said to the people This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth
But I think it’s necessary to send Epaphroditus back to you. He is my brother in the Lord. He is a worker and a soldier of Christ together with me. He is also your messenger. You sent him to take care of my needs.
They will rule with him for one thoused years
The secret power of sin is already at work But the one who now holds back that power will keep doing it until he is taken out of the way
He was raised from the dead That is my good news
The soldiers followed their orders. During the night they took Paul with them. They brought him as far as Antipatris.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Heaven and earth will disappear before the smallest letter disappears from the Law. Not even the smallest mark of a pen will disappear from the Law until everything is completed.
They shouted, “Friends, why are you doing this? We are only human, just like you.
I have to stay home.
Now get up and go into the city. There you will be told what you must do.”
The foolish ones said to the wise ones Give us some of your oil Our lamps are going out
He did only a few miracles in Nazareth because the people there had no faith
We are beaten, but we are not killed.
He must be able to teach
He will put the sheep to his right and the goats to his left.
And let us work hard to build up one another
Herodias couldnt forgive John for saying that She wanted to kill him But she could not
“The people of today are evil,” he said.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Unless a grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only one seed. But if it dies, it produces many seeds.
You have already heard about it You were told about it when the true message was given to you Im talking about the good news
This problem caused pain in my body It is a messenger from Satan to make me suffer
The tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus
But I am not. I have been sold to be a slave of sin.
Jesus told them more stories. He said,
A gentle south wind began to blow. The ship’s crew thought they saw their chance to leave safely. So they pulled up the anchor and sailed along the shore of Crete.
That’s because everyone will know me.
“David carried out God’s purpose while he lived. Then he died. He was buried with his people.
But Peter and John replied, “Which is right from God’s point of view? Should we listen to you? Or should we listen to God? You be the judges!
Abraham and his family received a promise. God promised that Abraham would receive the world. It would not come to him because he obeyed the law. It would come because of his faith, which made him right with God.
What is spiritual came after that.
Then Jesus said to Simon, “Don’t be afraid. From now on you will fish for people.”
I, James, am writing this letter. I serve God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
All who had ships on the sea
Brothers and sisters dont find fault with one another If you do you will be judged And the Judge is standing at the door
You have plenty of grain stored away for many years Take life easy Eat drink and have a good time
They were greatly comforted because he was alive.
And he had known who was going to hand him over to his enemies.
Our Lord God is the King who rules over all.
But I am sending the brothers Then our bragging about you in this matter will have a good reason You will be ready just as I said you would be
They said, “This fellow claimed, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God. I can build it again in three days.’ ”
God who looks into our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit And the Spirit prays for Gods people just as God wants him to pray
But sexual sins are sins against their own body
So why do you act as if you still belong to the world?
But Herod said I had Johns head cut off
Those who belong to Christ Jesus have nailed their sinful desires to his cross. They don’t want these things anymore.
But Jesus answered Stop this And he touched the mans ear and healed him
After he said this, he took his last breath.
Brothers and sisters, join together in following my example.
But what they said did not agree
So we see that they weren’t able to enter. That’s because they didn’t believe.
No one can enter God’s kingdom unless they are born with water and the Holy Spirit.
I ask you to receive her as one who belongs to the Lord. Receive her in the way God’s people should. Give her any help she may need from you. She has been a great help to many people, including me.
So they looked for a way to arrest him But they were afraid of the crowd The people believed that Jesus was a prophet
I broke my right leg
By that one sacrifice he has made perfect forever those who are being made holy.
The dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth So he chased the woman who had given birth to the boy
What I received I passed on to you And it is the most important of all Here is what it is
So then they will be your judges
A slave is not more important than his master.
I am poor at drawing
You are right,” Jesus said.
People will not teach their neighbor anymore
Jesus answered I was sent only to the people of Israel They are like lost sheep
They are the ones who will rightly be found guilty
Wake up! Strengthen what is left, or it will die. You have not done all that my God wants you to do.
They sent their gift to the elders through Barnabas and Saul
Your brother or sister may be upset by what you eat. If they are, you are no longer acting as though you love them.
The sins of some people are easy to see They are already being judged Others will be judged later
So you are no longer outsiders and strangers.
Since the days of John the Baptist the kingdom of heaven has been under attack And violent people are taking hold of it
They asked him Then who are you Are you Elijah
Paul had said that they would never see him again Thats what hurt them the most
We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him. He appointed them to be saved in keeping with his purpose.
It’s the same with you. You want the gifts of the Spirit. So try to do your best in using gifts that build up the church.
A Blind Beggar Receives His Sight
I was dead.
Who is able to do this work
Jesus answered, “I tell you, Peter, you will say three times that you don’t know me. And you will do it before the rooster crows today.”
He loves our nation and has built our synagogue
How was the fishing
Those who accepted his message were baptized.
We tell you that we will certainly not go up before those who have died
Still other seed fell on good soil. It grew up and produced a crop , , or even one hundred times more than the farmer planted.”
Thats because people are slaves to anything that controls them
Then we are lying
Everything that is not based on faith is sin
Then I heard how many people were marked with the seal There were  from all the tribes of Israel
The Stories of the Hidden Treasure and the Pearl
The first beast had given the second beast the power to perform these signs.
Then Jesus directed the people to sit down on the grass. He took the five loaves and the two fish. He looked up to heaven and gave thanks. He broke the loaves into pieces. Then he gave them to the disciples. And the disciples gave them to the people.
Dont be proud at all
I will strike her children dead
When the Temple Will Be Destroyed and the Signs of the End
They are the ones who will rightly be found guilty.
When the disciples saw this they were amazed How did the fig tree dry up so quickly they asked
I already warned you during my second visit. I now say it again while I’m away. When I return, I won’t spare those who sinned earlier. I won’t spare any of the others either.
Jesus said to them, “Come and have breakfast.” None of the disciples dared to ask him, “Who are you?” They knew it was the Lord.
One person was there who had not been able to walk for thirty eight years.
But if we say From people all the people will throw stones at us and kill us They believe that John was a prophet
In fact such things cant be understood without the Spirits help
Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem This time I went with Barnabas
Suppose someone takes you to court to get your shirt Let them have your coat also
Pauls Work for God in Thessalonica
The person who has the Spirit can judge all things
If your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It would be better to enter the kingdom of heaven with only one hand than go into hell with two hands. It would be better to enter the kingdom of heaven with only one foot than go into hell with two feet. In hell the fire burns forever.
They show that what the law requires is written on their hearts.
He saw heaven open up There he saw something that looked like a large sheet It was being let down to earth by its four corners
You nest of poisonous snakes! How can you who are evil say anything good? Your mouths say everything that is in your hearts.
if anyone takes what belongs to you dont ask to get it back
You say that people should not commit adultery. But you commit adultery! You hate statues of gods. But you rob temples!
And they slapped him in the face
No one does anything good
Who can know the thoughts of another person?
He was hard on those who stopped following him
We have looked at him Our hands have touched him
Jesus answered, “You were given power from heaven. If you weren’t, you would have no power over me. So the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin.”
Then he said to her Dear woman your faith has healed you
Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
The angel said Do not be afraid Paul You must go on trial in front of Caesar
And let the holy person continue to be holy.”
Suppose someone slaps you on one cheek. Let them slap you on the other cheek as well.
At Iconium, Paul and Barnabas went into the Jewish synagogue as usual. They spoke there with great power.
Those who have victory will receive all this from me I will be their God and they will be my children
Paul greeted them Then he reported everything God had done among the Gentiles through his work
You eat the bread and drink the cup When you do this you are announcing the Lords death until he comes again
Those who heard him gave us the message about it.
Before you believed in Christ you were separated from him You were not considered to be citizens of Israel You were not included in what the covenants promised You were without hope and without God in the world
So he called out, “Stand up on your feet!” Then the man jumped up and began to walk.
In the place of the dead, the rich man was suffering terribly. He looked up and saw Abraham far away. Lazarus was by his side.
So what should I do I will pray with my spirit But I will also pray with my understanding I will sing with my spirit But I will also sing with my understanding
He was teaching in their synagogues
So don’t think you are better than the other branches. Remember, you don’t give life to the root. The root gives life to you.
Wife, how do you know if you will save your husband? Husband, how do you know if you will save your wife?
He gives life to the world
What I know now is not complete.
They trip and fall because they do not obey the message That is also what God planned for them
You will know that you are in me and I am in you
Glory and power belong to Jesus Christ for ever and ever
The Son is first, and he is over all creation.
It is not based on anything you have done.
Slaves to Right Living
It also forced everyone to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead. People great or small, rich or poor, free or slave had to receive the mark.
And again he says
Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I left.’ When it arrives there, it finds the house empty. The house has been swept clean and put in order.
So Joseph got up During the night he left for Egypt with the child and his mother Mary
We have no king but Caesar the chief priests answered
The Plan to Kill Jesus
The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands to make them clean Thats what the elders teach
Dont pay back unkind words with unkind words
The Lord answered, “Suppose a master puts one of his servants in charge of his other servants. The servant’s job is to give them the food they are to receive at the right time. The master wants a faithful and wise manager for this.
Pray that I will preach it clearly as I should
Scripture says, “The earth belongs to the Lord. And so does everything in it.”
We decided that God had called us to preach the good news there.
He did this through the preaching that he trusted me with
Just like Melchizedek
If anyone destroys Gods temple God will destroy that person
Even the Son of Man did not come to be served Instead he came to serve others He came to give his life as the price for setting many people free
At that time Jesus was full of joy through the Holy Spirit. He said, “I praise you, Father. You are Lord of heaven and earth. You have hidden these things from wise and educated people. But you have shown them to little children. Yes, Father. This is what you wanted to do.
The son wanted to fill his stomach with the food the pigs were eating. But no one gave him anything.
Why did you make me like this
He had amazed them for a long time with his evil magic. So they followed him.
The Stories of the Mustard Seed and the Yeast
Their faces looked like human faces.
Some of those standing there heard Jesus cry out. They said, “He’s calling for Elijah.”
You have been given directions about him.
He entered the house of God and took the holy bread He ate the bread that only priests were allowed to eat
He went a little farther. Then he fell with his face to the ground. He prayed, “My Father, if it is possible, take this cup of suffering away from me. But let what you want be done, not what I want.”
He will show you a large upstairs room with furniture already in it. Prepare for us to eat there.”
What is seed scattered on a path like The message is planted The people hear the message Then Satan comes He takes away the message that was planted in them
At that hour of the night the jailer took Paul and Silas and washed their wounds
Ill show you the way
Worship God!”
When Peter understood what had happened he went to Marys house Mary was the mother of John Mark Many people had gathered in her home They were praying there
We are known, but people treat us as if we were unknown. We are dying, but we continue to live. We are beaten, but we are not killed.
what should we do
Paul’s Concern for the People of Corinth
Barnabas also said that Saul had preached without fear in Jesus’ name in Damascus.
You have turned away from the love you had at first
The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed
The disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said again, “Children, how hard it is to enter God’s kingdom!
After he had sent them away, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. Later that night, he was there alone.
They were amazed and bewildered They asked one another What does this mean
Let the words you speak always be full of grace. Learn how to make your words what people want to hear. Then you will know how to answer everyone.
The Word of Life Became a Human Being
The Chief Shepherd will come again. Then you will receive the crown of glory. It is a crown that will never fade away.
Whose Son Is the Messiah
You must speak words that people understand. If you don’t, no one will know what you are saying.
I bow in prayer to the Father because of my work among you
He said to them Two men went up to the temple to pray One was a Pharisee The other was a tax collector
Some people did accept him and did believe in his name He gave them the right to become children of God
Jesus said, “Then I won’t tell you by what authority I am doing these things either.”
Aren’t all his sisters with us?
So those who depend on faith are blessed along with Abraham. He was the man of faith.
I gave them the words you gave me
Then they turned again to the blind man. “What do you have to say about him?” they asked. “It was your eyes he opened.”
You should mind your own business
I bring my rewards with me.
But he only knew about John’s baptism.
And
Then he ordered that Paul be kept under guard in Herod’s palace.
Get up and stand in front of everyone
Outside are also those who commit sexual sins and murder.
He will bring to light what is hidden in the dark.
Work for food that lasts forever. That is the food the Son of Man will give you.
Many people believed in the Lord
Jesus said, “Then I won’t tell you by what authority I am doing these things either.”
More than fourty men took part in this plan
God never said to any of the angels,
Your eye is like a lamp for your body Suppose your eyes are healthy
“Come! Gather together for the great supper of God.
“I am Gabriel. I serve God.
Who can say anything about his children
Jesus turned to the crowd that was following him
In the one case, the tenth is collected by people who die.
These people complain and find fault with others
Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem He traveled along the border between Samaria and Galilee
It always trusts
When the judges heard that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens they became afraid
The sixth angel blew his trumpet
When evening came, Jesus’ disciples went down to the Sea of Galilee.
Women should remain silent in church meetings They are not allowed to speak They must follow the lead of those who are in authority as the law says
We sent our brother Timothy to give you strength and hope in your faith. He works together with us in God’s service to spread the good news about Christ.
They marched across the whole earth They surrounded the place where Gods holy people were camped
I have been crucified with Christ. I don’t live any longer, but Christ lives in me. Now I live my life in my body by faith in the Son of God. He loved me and gave himself for me.
The Jews living in Damascus couldn’t believe what was happening. Saul proved to them that Jesus is the Messiah.
A large number of Jews have come to me about him They came to me in Jerusalem and also here in Caesarea They keep shouting that he shouldnt live any longer
Those things happened to them as examples for us. They were written down to warn us. That’s because we are living at the time when God’s work is being completed.
I believe that story
“When you go without eating, do not look gloomy like those who only pretend to be holy. They make their faces look very sad. They want to show people they are fasting. What I’m about to tell you is true. They have received their complete reward.
Jesus and Beelzebul
Remain strong in the faith, and you will receive eternal life.
Who can accept it?”
And God is carrying out his anger through them The ruler punishes anyone who does wrong
You will go ahead of the Lord to prepare the way for him.
They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun
I have spoken to you about earthly things, and you do not believe. So how will you believe if I speak about heavenly things?
Judas accepted their offer He watched for the right time to hand Jesus over to them He wanted to do it when no crowd was around
The secret power of sin is already at work.
A good man says good things. These come from the good that is stored up inside him. An evil man says evil things. These come from the evil that is stored up inside him.
Because of this one person stays hungry and another gets drunk
The result of Gods gift is different from the result of Adams sin That one sin brought Gods judgment But after many sins Gods gift made people right with him
I say it again Every man who lets him be circumcised must obey the whole law
His followers will preach in his name They will tell others to turn away from their sins and be forgiven People from every nation will hear it beginning at Jerusalem
Your faith and love are based on the hope you have. What you hope for is stored up for you in heaven. You have already heard about it. You were told about it when the true message was given to you. I’m talking about the good news
Through that cross the ways of the world have been crucified as far as I am concerned. And I have been crucified as far as the ways of the world are concerned.
Do not think I have come to get rid of what is written in the Law or in the Prophets I have not come to do this Instead I have come to fulfill what is written
But when the Son of Man came, he ate and drank as you do. And you say, ‘This fellow is always eating and drinking far too much. He’s a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’
Pilate said Take him yourselves Judge him by your own law
But when I preach the good news, I can’t brag. I have to preach it. How terrible it will be for me if I do not preach the good news!
Then Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus
The dark night of evil is nearly over. The day of Christ’s return is almost here.
When they had done so
God gave them the same gift he gave those of us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. So who was I to think that I could stand in God’s way?”
John’s disciples came and took his body and buried it. Then they went and told Jesus.
Uzziah was the father of Jotham.Jotham was the father of Ahaz.Ahaz was the father of Hezekiah.
Its rider held a bow in his hands.
Its rider is called Faithful and True.
But I wont brag more than I should God himself has given me an opportunity for serving I will only brag about what I have done with that opportunity This opportunity for serving also includes you
One was Mary Magdalene Seven demons had come out of her
“But they all had the same idea. They began to make excuses. The first one said, ‘I have just bought a field. I have to go and see it. Please excuse me.’
You foolish person
You circumcise a boy on the Sabbath day. You think that if you do, you won’t break the law of Moses. Then why are you angry with me? I healed a man’s entire body on the Sabbath day!
Hagar and Sarah
Jesus looked up and saw a large crowd coming toward him. So he said to Philip, “Where can we buy bread for these people to eat?”
He had been that way since he was born Every day someone put him near the gate There he would beg from people going into the temple courtyards
What should we say then? That the law is sinful? Not at all! Yet I wouldn’t have known what sin was unless the law had told me. The law says, “Do not want what belongs to other people.”  If the law hadn’t said that, I would not have known what it was like to want what belongs to others.
I have been cold and naked.
The prophets and teachers fasted and prayed. They placed their hands on Barnabas and Saul. Then they sent them off.
A person is worth more than sheep! So the Law allows us to do good on the Sabbath day.”
The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon
The hearts of these people have become stubborn.
I can't wait forever.
I give a command to those who are married
He is wearing gloves.
Dear friends,
Is everyone a teacher?
They will love money
He told them to believe in the one who was coming after him Jesus is that one
“He is the God who made the world. He also made everything in it. He is the Lord of heaven and earth.
We stayed there several days. Then a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
Philip was from the town of Bethsaida. So were Andrew and Peter.
I saw.
she went out to meet him
I often catch colds
We dont know where they have put him
The one considered least important among all of you is really the most important.
Im writing these things to warn you I am warning you about people trying to lead you astray
Jesus Heals a Boy Who Is Controlled by an Evil Spirit
Large crowds came to him. They brought blind people and those who could not walk. They also brought disabled people, those who could not speak, and many others. They laid them at his feet, and he healed them.
they all have meaning.
Salvation and glory and power belong to our God
But someone here is going to hand me over to my enemies. His hand is with mine on the table.
Tell Archippus, “Be sure that you complete the work the Lord gave you to do.”
I have won the battle over the world
The sevety two returned with joy They said
I must repay the debt
He said, “I wish you had known today what would bring you peace! But now it is hidden from your eyes.
“Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery. Also, the man who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
At that time Jesus healed many people. They had illnesses, sicknesses and evil spirits. He also gave sight to many who were blind.
They were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth
“The older brother became angry. He refused to go in. So his father went out and begged him.
Then Peter began to curse. He said to them, “I don’t know this man you’re talking about!”
They thought he would suddenly fall dead They waited for a long time
“So you must be careful to do everything they say. But don’t do what they do. They don’t practice what they preach.
When the disciples heard this they were terrified They fell with their faces to the ground
It is time to destroy those who destroy the earth
A woman from Canaan lived near Tyre and Sidon. She came to him and cried out, “Lord! Son of David! Have mercy on me! A demon controls my daughter. She is suffering terribly.”
The Woman and the Dragon
they will find plenty of food.
Some were made fun of and even whipped
Then the Jews began to argue sharply among themselves They said How can this man give us his body to eat
Lysanias was ruler of Abilene
The one who sits on the throne
I Paul am writing this letter I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God planned
That’s how I prove that I am the author of all my letters.
It also belongs to her husband.
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes
Paul said to him, “Does the law allow you to whip a Roman citizen who hasn’t even been found guilty?”
If Satan drives out Satan, he fights against himself. Then how can his kingdom stand?
Here is what I have been saying
They came to John and here is what they said to him. “Rabbi, that man who was with you on the other side of the Jordan River is baptizing people. He is the one you told us about. Everyone is going to him.”
The law appoints as high priests men who are weak. But God’s promise came after the law.
And whoever believes in me will never be thirsty
But if I do judge what I decide is true This is because I am not alone
They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any plant or tree They were supposed to harm only the people without Gods official seal on their foreheads
I'm still your friend.
You have said so Jesus replied
From there we traveled to Philippi, a Roman colony. It is an important city in that part of Macedonia. We stayed there several days.
Then the two witnesses heard a loud voice from heaven It said to them Come up here They went up to heaven in a cloud Their enemies watched it happen
Those who have the same faith that Abraham had are also included
Once more Jesus visited Cana in Galilee Cana is where he had turned the water into wine
The crowds listened to Philip
They are only a shadow of the things to come. But what is real is found in Christ.
I call God to be my witness May he take my life if Im lying
Then a cloud appeared and covered them. A voice came from the cloud. It said, “This is my Son, and I love him. Listen to him!”
Then Simon Peter came along behind him. He went straight into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there.
And anyone who judges another believer judges the law.
We know how he does his evil work
They arent really busy
Michael and his angels fought against the dragon.
In doing so he kept fighting for ages only in the country።
But knowledge makes people proud,
We wanted to come to you.
When I heard this, I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said to me, “Don’t do that! I serve God, just as you do. I am God’s servant, just like believers who hold firmly to what Jesus has taught. Worship God! The Spirit of prophecy tells the truth about Jesus.”
The sound of their wings was like the thundering of many horses and chariots rushing into battle
During those days another large crowd gathered They had nothing to eat So Jesus called for his disciples to come to him He said
Fallen
So I will always remind you of these things
She made the earth impure with her terrible sins
Jesus mother said to him They have no more wine
They ran off and reported it in the town and countryside.
Titus had already started collecting money from you So we asked him to help you finish making your kind gift
In anything he does, he must not go too far.
As the king began to do it, a man who owed him ten thousend bags of gold was brought to him.
When Pilate heard that, he brought Jesus out. Pilate sat down on the judge’s seat. It was at a place called the Stone Walkway.
So they filled them to the top.
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Ephesus.
Whoever eats meat does so to honor the Lord.
That will happen in a flash as quickly as you can wink an eye It will happen at the blast of the last trumpet
We are knocked down But we are not knocked out
After he had said this, Jesus’ spirit was troubled. He said, “What I’m about to tell you is true. One of you is going to hand me over to my enemies.”
When the demons came out of the man, they went into the pigs. Then the herd rushed down the steep bank. They ran into the lake and drowned.
So from now on we dont look at anyone the way the world does At one time we looked at Christ in that way But we dont anymore
By the Spirit’s power we call God Abba. Abba means Father.
But then the chosen time came God sent his Son A woman gave birth to him He was born under the authority of the law
Was it after Abraham was circumcised or before
But now faith in Christ has come. So the law is no longer in charge of us.
The Holy Spirit makes you one in every way. So try your best to remain as one. Let peace keep you together.
The enemy who plants them is the devil. The harvest is judgment day. And the workers are angels.
but you don’t have it.
Then the devil took Jesus to the holy city. He had him stand on the highest point of the temple.
One of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him
Nothing that has been made was made without him.
Why Because I dont love you No God knows I do
The crowd that followed kept shouting, “Get rid of him!”
Instead they do what comes naturally to them
But he warned them not to tell other people about him.
Cry and weep, because you will soon be suffering.
But a donkey corrected him for the wrong he did. Animals don’t speak.
Titus welcomed our appeal. He is also excited about coming to you. It was hisown idea.
Wives follow the lead of your husbands Thats what the Lord wants you to do
They are full of every kind of sin, evil and ungodliness. They want more than they need. They commit murder.
So then everyone who hears my words and puts them into practice is like a wise man He builds his house on the rock
Just then Jesus’ disciples returned.
How foolish What you plant doesnt come to life unless it dies
You have received the Spirit from the Holy One And all of you know the truth
He has not become a priest because of a rule about his family line. He has become a priest because of his powerful life. His life can never be destroyed.
A light shone in the prison cell.
An authority on the law spoke to Jesus. He said, “Teacher, when you say things like that, you say bad things about us too.”
So Gods word spread
Who is your teacher
The person whose heart has been circumcised does more than obey the written law.
A large herd of pigs was feeding on the nearby hillside
They became powerful in battle
“Men,” he said, “I can see that our trip is going to be dangerous. The ship and everything in it will be lost. Our own lives will be in danger also.”
There is great value in every way First of all the Jews have been given the very words of God
And I am not pleased with
All this is for your benefit Gods grace is reaching more and more people So they will become more and more thankful They will give glory to God
He himself had pointed out that a prophet is not respected in his own country
EPHESIANS
“Sit at my right hand
There was no crowd with me
There were people who were not killed by these plagues
The dragon stood on the seashore. I saw a beast coming out of the sea. It had ten horns and seven heads. There were ten crowns on its horns. On each head was an evil name that brought shame to God.
He works together with us in Gods service to spread the good news about Christ
Here is what I tell you. Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery. A man may divorce his wife only if she has not been faithful to him.”
Peter answered, “You are the Messiah.”
It’s true that I also baptized those who live in the house of Stephanas.
They walked the length of one street.
He is coming to judge everyone He is coming to sentence all of them He will judge them for all the ungodly acts they have done
But I dont want anyone to fool you with words that only sound good
take the sword of the Holy Spirit.
At that time someone may say to you Look Here is the Messiah Or Look There he is Do not believe it
Friend he asked how did you get in here without wedding clothes The man couldnt think of anything to say
Jesus said Here is a saying you will certainly apply to me Doctor heal yourself
I Paul am writing this letter Silas and Timothy join me in writing
They renewed my spirit, and yours also.
He used to help himself to what was in it.
All this encourages us.
The people of Israel had faith. So they passed through the Red Sea. They went through it as if it were dry land. The Egyptians tried to do it also. But they drowned.
After that he got up from prayer and went back to the disciples He found them sleeping They were worn out because they were very sad
What if a message from God comes to someone else who is sitting there Then the one who is speaking should stop
So he went and sold everything he had. And he bought that field.
He wants me to tell others about the good news of God’s grace.
How can you say to your friend Let me take the bit of sawdust out of your eye How can you say this while there is a piece of wood in your own eye
But not all the people of Israel accepted the good news. Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our message?”
When the Sabbath day came, he began to teach in the synagogue. Many who heard him were amazed.
And it was opened. The temple is the holy tent where the tablets of the covenant law were kept.
Jesus replied, “They are plants that my Father in heaven has not planted. They will be pulled up by the roots.
Later Jesus knew that everything had now been finished He also knew that what Scripture said must come true So he said I am thirsty
We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him He appointed them to be saved in keeping with his purpose
“Son of God, what do you want with us?” they shouted. “Have you come here to punish us before the time for us to be judged?”
David says,
The way we show our love is to obey Gods commands
He works together with us in God’s service to spread the good news about Christ.
I didn't do anything.
Then Jesus told them a story.
The blood of goats and bulls is sprinkled on people. So are the ashes of a young cow. They are sprinkled on people the law called “unclean.” The people are sprinkled to make them holy. That makes them “clean” on the outside.
He says Jesus will change the practices that Moses handed down to us.”
Abraham did this because he believed that God could even raise the dead In a way he did receive Isaac back from death
The sun rises. Its burning heat dries up the plants. Their blossoms fall. Their beauty is destroyed. In the same way, rich people will fade away. They fade away even as they go about their business.
Don’t pretend to be something you are not.
While the meal was being prepared, Peter had a vision.
We believe that Jesus died and rose again
Jesus disciples asked him Rabbi who sinned
But Jesus asked the children to come to him. “Let the little children come to me,” he said. “Don’t keep them away. God’s kingdom belongs to people like them.
Fancy hairstyles don’t make you beautiful.
His name is the Word of God
Because you know all this, you have great joy.
they threw him out of the synagogue.
They do not please God
We did this so that the truth of the good news would be kept safe for you.
But in your mouth it will taste as sweet as honey
Death ruled from the time of Adam to the time of Moses. Death ruled even over those who did not sin as Adam did. He broke God’s command.
Keep an eye on anyone who doesnt obey the teachings in our letter Dont have anything to do with that person Then they will feel ashamed
When the ruler heard this he became very sad He was very rich
To those who are weak I became weak That was to win the weak I have become all things to all people I have done this so that in all possible ways I might save some
And you must allow this strength to finish its work. Then you will be all you should be. You will have everything you need.
So keep thinking about Jesus
People who want to get rich are tempted. They fall into a trap. They are tripped up by wanting many foolish and harmful things. Those who live like that are dragged down by what they do. They are destroyed and die.
Suppose people say bad things about you because you believe in Christ Then you are blessed because Gods Spirit rests on you He is the Spirit of glory
Jesus answered What Im about to tell you is true
How can he now say, ‘I came down from heaven’?”
Love holds them all together perfectly as if they were one.
John baptized with water
I saw an angel coming down out of heaven He had the key to the Abyss In his hand he held a heavy chain
Paul placed his hands on them. Then the Holy Spirit came on them. They spoke in languages they had not known before. They also prophesied.
The sight was terrifying
Here are the rules you followDo not handle Do not taste Do not touch
He appointed him to be ruler over everything for the church
Then they asked him What does God want from us What works does he want us to do
Or did the word of God begin with you?
But he was too wise for them. That’s because the Holy Spirit gave Stephen wisdom whenever he spoke.
And they must believe that he rewards those who look to him
I will call the one who is not my loved one my loved one
With your heart you believe and are made right with God. With your mouth you say what you believe. And so you are saved.
He has not become a priest because of a rule about his family line.
Many drugs were lost, medical supplies that were in the past no longer exist,  ambulances and two cars were burned።
Fathers don’t make your children angry. Instead, instruct them and teach them the ways of the Lord as you raise them.
And the one who gathered a little had enough
Someone told him, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside. They want to speak to you.”
When Jesus arrived he found out that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days
Our “God is like a fire that burns everything up.”
You are only a man. But you claim to be God.”
Some young men came and wrapped up his body They carried him out and buried him
Here is a saying that you can trust It should be accepted completely Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners And I am the worst sinner of all
You don’t even know what will happen tomorrow. What is your life? It is a mist that appears for a little while. Then it disappears.
Sitting on the cloud was one who looked like a son of man
Were you a slave when God chose you Dont let it trouble you But if you can get your master to set you free do it
You hate the way the Nicolaitans act I hate it too
And the God who gives love and peace will be with you
He spoke clearly about this. Peter took Jesus to one side and began to scold him.
It is written I am the God who judges people
Their voice has gone out into the whole earth
Then the disciples came to Jesus in private They asked Why couldnt we drive out the demon
Then he broke it and began to eat
“So in those days there will be terrible suffering. After that, Scripture says,
Greet Rufus He is a chosen believer in the Lord And greet his mother She has been like a mother to me too
Dear friends, we have these promises from God. So let us make ourselves pure from everything that makes our bodies and spirits impure.
I know that when I come to you, I will come with the full blessing of Christ.
You don’t want to be afraid of those in authority, do you?
We dont need to write to you about your love for one another
When Jesus saw this he was angry He said to his disciples Let the little children come to me Dont keep them away Gods kingdom belongs to people like them
In the simplest one-hour job, if someone were to say they picked up, they would get six hundred ።
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him.
The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep.
It was thought that he was the son of Joseph
They are weaker than you So treat them with respect
We depend on it.
His name is the Word of God.
But each persons work will be shown for what it is
They took off his clothes and put a purple robe on him
Jesus said to him Receive your sight Your faith has healed you
He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there.
And since that time he waits for his enemies to be put under his control
One Sabbath day Jesus was walking with his disciples through the grainfields The disciples began to break off some heads of grain
About that time she became sick and died. Her body was washed and placed in a room upstairs.
I used to play tennis.
-Two women will be grinding grain together.
They were amazed at the gracious words they heard from his lips
“Or did others talk to you about me?”
When the president arrived at Gerad Wilwal airport in Jigjiga city he was warmly welcomed by Somali regional head Mustafa Muhammad and other senior leaders of the region
Now listen you who say
He was not an ordinary child
It was before he was circumcised not after
You are observing special days and months and seasons and years
The disciples went and woke Jesus up They said Master Master Were going to drown
My new covenant will be different because they didnt remain faithful to my old covenant
One Body but Many Parts
Now, at just the right time, he has made his promise clear.
But that is not the way of life in Christ that you learned about
There are different ways the Spirit works. But the same God is working in all these ways and in all people.
And Death and Hell gave up their dead
I’m not saying this because I need anything. I have learned to be content no matter what happens to me.
When Jesus came ashore he saw a large crowd He felt deep concern for them He healed their sick people
I push myself forward toward the goal to win the prize. God has appointed me to win it. The heavenly prize is Christ Jesus himself.
Lofere Lofe has its own tradition and order።
We are fools for Christ But you are so wise in Christ We are weak But you are so strong You are honored But we are looked down on
We are beaten but we are not killed
Why didn't she come?
I'll get some glasses.
But the mind ruled by the Spirit brings life and peace
“Let their feast be a trap and a snare.
“Come!” Anyone who is thirsty should come.
Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man
While Peter was still speaking the Holy Spirit came on all who heard the message
What a terrible failure I am Who will save me from this sin that brings death to my body
He took the seven loaves and the fish and gave thanks. Then he broke them and gave them to the disciples. And the disciples passed them out to the people.
I must bring them in too
When the young man heard this, he went away sad. He was very rich.
Jesus answered, “Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again.
You have been born again by means of the living word of God His word lasts forever
I am a prisoner because of the Lord. So I am asking you to live a life worthy of what God chose you for.
Then the leaders of the synagogue sent word to Paul and his companions. They said, “Brothers, do you have any words of instruction for the people? If you do, please speak.”
The next day the rulers, the elders and the teachers of the law met in Jerusalem.
The end of all things is near
The one who came down is the same one who went up He went up higher than all the heavens He did it in order to fill all creation
The Wise and Foolish Builders
He took his mat and went home praising God
One Sabbath day Jesus walked through the grainfields. His disciples were hungry. So they began to break off some heads of grain and eat them.
I will pay each of you back for what you have done.
God raised us up with Christ.
The kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to collect all the money his servants owed him
When the disciples heard this, they were terrified. They fell with their faces to the ground.
He made a promise in the name of the God who lives for ever and ever
Also, if the trumpet call isn’t clear, who will get ready for battle?
When I came to you I was weak and very afraid and trembling all over
Our hope for you remains firm. We know that you suffer just as we do. In the same way, God comforts you just as he comforts us.
Unless a grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only one seed.
But it is just as I told you.
God will praise you for this
So then, here is what I say about eating food sacrificed to statues of gods.
The Word was in the world
May your kingdom come.
Then they came to Jesus They saw the man who had been controlled by many demons He was sitting there He was now dressed and thinking clearly All this made the people afraid
They all drank the same spiritual water.
But the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard about this. So they tore their clothes. They rushed out into the crowd.
Or is it also for those who are not circumcised?
Believers at Corinth we have spoken freely to you We have opened our hearts wide to you
After he said this he sent the people away
Now all of you will be able to hear him King Agrippa it will also be very good for you to hear him
But here is how things are for those who belong to the Lord. Woman is not independent of man. And man is not independent of woman.
When they had spoken I was getting ready to write
Cry and weep because you will soon be suffering
At first I was sorry. I see that my letter hurt you, but only for a little while.
You were guilty of the murder of prophets and Gods holy people
Blessed are you when people make fun of you and hurt you because of me You are also blessed when they tell all kinds of evil lies about you because of me
When he comes he will prove that the worlds people are guilty He will prove their guilt concerning sin and godliness and judgment
Every island ran away.
You suffered along with people in prison
In just a little while
Buy from me white clothes to wear Then you will be able to cover the shame of your naked bodies
“All people are like grass.
To those who are dying, we are the smell of death. To those who are being saved, we are the perfume of life. Who is able to do this work?
Then say to the owner of the house The Teacher asks Where is the guest room Where can I eat the Passover meal with my disciples
Abrham quit.
You lived a wild life
Johns clothes were made out of camels hair He had a leather belt around his waist His food was locusts and wild honey
How terrible for you when everyone says good things about you
Father you are holy The world does not know you but I know you
Fellow Israelites you can be sure that King David died
Now what do you say?”
Jesus sent these  out with the following orders Do not go among the Gentiles he said Do not enter any town of the Samaritans
You are doing what your own father does.”
Jesus Speaks About His Coming Death
Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin
My sheep listen to my voice.
“Didn’t you know I had to be in my Father’s house?”
Here is something else God says about the angels
And if Christ has not been raised, your faith doesn’t mean anything.
Brothers and sisters, you should want to prophesy.
In addition, whom do we deal with?
You always oppose the Holy Spirit
comfort your hearts.
Jesus said, “I am with you for only a short time. Then I will go to the one who sent me.
Some people are worried about how things look on the outside They are trying to force you to be circumcised
It is written, “I chose Jacob instead of Esau.”
The Father has sent me. So now I am sending you.”
The Coming of Gods Kingdom
The Holy Spirit clearly says that in the last days some people will leave the faith
You will know that what God will give his holy people is rich and glorious.
In a race all the runners run. But only one gets the prize. You know that, don’t you?
He will be important in the sight of the Lord.
He scattered the seed on the ground. Some fell on a path. Birds came and ate it up.
I am absolutely sure that not even death or life can separate us from Gods love
I have been saying nothing different from what the prophets and Moses said would happen.
Then I heard another voice from heaven It said
All this took about  years.
He prayed hard that it wouldn’t rain.
They were burned by the blazing heat.
It includes helping those who are in trouble. A widow should spend her time doing all kinds of good things.
The people had gathered to watch this sight. When they saw what happened, they felt very sad. Then they went away.
And let the holy person continue to be holy.”
You will always have the poor among you.
Believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead Then you will be saved
Now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father
But you are rich
No one has seen the Father except the one who has come from God
All the people answered Put the blame for his death on us and our children
Suppose they sin against you seven times in one day And suppose they come back to you each time and say Im sorry You must forgive them
“Aeneas,” Peter said to him, “Jesus Christ heals you.
Now it is time for the world to be judged. Now the prince of this world will be thrown out.
Not everyone in Abrahams family line is really his child Not at all Scripture says Your family line will continue through Isaac
Dont those who eat the offerings share in the altar
But the least important person in God’s kingdom is more important than John is.”
They will not be judged They have crossed over from death to life
“Again, here is what the kingdom of heaven will be like. A man was going on a journey. He sent for his slaves and put them in charge of his money.
I have given them your word
Again Peter said no. At that exact moment a rooster began to crow.
He didn’t need anyone to tell him what people are like. He already knew why people do what they do.
That makes me very glad
Dear children
Some are also faithful today. They have been chosen by God’s grace.
all the believers gathered in one place.
“How many loaves do you have?” Jesus asked. “Seven,” they replied, “and a few small fish.”
Peter Says He Is Not Jesus Disciple
We work together with God. So we are asking you not to receive God’s grace and then do nothing with it.
Jesus loved his disciples who were in the world
Fathers Im writing to you because you know the one who is from the beginning
“I have spoken openly to the world,” Jesus replied. “I always taught in synagogues or at the temple, where all the Jews come together. I didn’t say anything in secret.
Woman came from man, and man is born from woman.
Jesus Is Arrested
You have gathered the benefits of their work.”
Moses was with the Israelites in the desert
So encourage one another with the hope you have. Build each other up.
So try your best to be found pure and without blame
The high priest enters the Most Holy Room every year. He enters with blood that is not his own. But Christ did not enter heaven to offer himself again and again.
I myself did not know him. But the one who sent me to baptize with water told me, ‘You will see the Spirit come down and remain on someone. He is the one who will baptize with the Holy Spirit.’
All I have is yours and all you have is mine
But if the unbeliever leaves let that person go In that case the believer does not have to stay married to the unbeliever God wants us to live in peace
But I will come very soon, if that’s what the Lord wants. Then I will find out how those proud people are talking. I will also find out what power they have.
The founders of our nation belong to them.
The field is the world. The good seed stands for the people who belong to the kingdom. The weeds are the people who belong to the evil one.
Jesus Honors a Greek Womans Faith
We serve God in times of glory and shame.
Out of the smoke came locusts They came down on the earth
Using many stories like these, Jesus spoke the word to them. He told them as much as they could understand.
I will let that person eat from the tree of life in God’s paradise.’
The explanation here is that twenty five up to thirty Birr is paid to unload or load one quintal load from a car
The people of Sodom and Gomorrah
Some were sawed in two. Some were killed by swords.
Are you free from such a promise? Then don’t look for a wife.
And they were afraid to ask Jesus about it.
“The first boy born in every family must be set apart for the Lord.”
He will have the same spirit and power that Elijah had.
But they shouted even louder, “Crucify him!”
So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath day.”
That’s just what I was doing in Jerusalem.
Who do you think you are
People are considered to be right with God only when they obey the law.
They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any plant or tree
But we sailed from Philippi after the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Five days later we joined the others at Troas.
The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water. They became blood.
With his mighty power he led them out of that country
And if Christ has not been raised, what we preach doesn’t mean anything. Your faith doesn’t mean anything either.
Heres what it is Love your neighbor as you love yourself
When the Jewish leaders came back with me, I didn’t waste any time. I called the court together the next day. I ordered the man to be brought in.
because Herod was afraid of John So he kept John safe Herod knew John was a holy man who did what was right When Herod heard him he was very puzzled But he liked to listen to John
However it causes conflict and raises the idea that there should be or should come a force for the solution that I represent and defend against the government።
Also Cretans and Arabs are here We hear all these people speaking about Gods wonders in our own languages
Then who can sentence us to death No one Christ Jesus is at the right hand of God and is also praying for us He died More than that he was raised to life
But there were also false prophets among the people. In the same way there will be false teachers among you. In secret they will bring in teachings that will destroy you. They will even turn against the Lord and Master who died to pay for their sins. So they will quickly destroy themselves.
We haven’t taken advantage of anyone.
Follow the lead of those who are older.
Thats why God warned Moses when he was about to build the holy tent
knows God
“Lord,” Peter asked, “Why can’t I follow you now?
Worship him who made the sea and the springs of water
May your whole spirit
The eye cant say to the hand I dont need you The head cant say to the feet I dont need you
And they returned home.
The people were amazed Those who could not speak were speaking The disabled were made well Those not able to walk were walking Those who were blind could see So the people praised the God of Israel
Christ Rose From the Dead
They will rule with him for one thoused years.
Suppose our good news is covered with a veil
And where I am, my servant will also be.
‘Leave your country and your people,’ God said. ‘Go to the land I will show you.’ (Genesis :)
A Mother Asks a Favor of Jesus
Mary Magdalene was among them Mary the mother of James and Joseph was also there So was the mother of Zebedees sons
show yourself to the world
The church follows the lead of Christ In the same way wives should follow the lead of their husbands in everything
False Teachers Will Be Destroyed
You don’t let other people tell you what to do or say.
These witnesses have power to close up the sky Then it will not rain while they are prophesying
They were all filled with the Holy Spirit.
We know what love is because Jesus Christ gave his life for us.
Here is what is written in the Law of Moses. “Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw.” Is it oxen that God is concerned about?
Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul Love him with all your mind and with all your strength
Ever since the world was created it has been possible to see the qualities of God that are not seen.
Suppose some of you think you are wise by the standards of the world
I will put my trust in him
I am talking to you who are not Jews
So God has put everything under his Son Everything is under his control We do not now see everything under his control
Suppose someone comes to you and preaches about a Jesus different from the Jesus we preached about.
When people attack you in one place, escape to another. What I’m about to tell you is true. You will not finish going through the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
Be Ready
So speaking in other languages is a sign for those who dont believe It is not a sign for those who do believe But prophecy is not for those who dont believe It is for those who believe
They suffered in their bodies for all the wrong things they did
We want you to be patient We pray that you will never give up
He picked up his mat and walked
That’s because those who have died have been set free from sin.
But we must run the ship onto the beach of some island.”
The emperor Claudius had ordered all Jews to leave Rome
It is shameful for women to speak in church meetings.
A wild storm came up Waves crashed over the boat It was about to sink
Then came the Feast of Hanukkah at Jerusalem. It was winter.
God has given me the grace to lay a foundation as a wise builder
I dont dare to compare myself with those who praise themselves Im not that kind of person They measure themselves by themselves They compare themselves with themselves When they do that they are not wise
But it is shameful for her to cut her hair or shave her head So she should cover her head
Jesus sat down across from the place where people put their temple offerings. He watched the crowd putting their money into the offering boxes. Many rich people threw large amounts into them.
The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath day.”
I will brag about a man like that
Dont let anyone look down on you because you are young Set an example for the believers in what you say and in how you live
Someone might argue, “When I lie, it becomes clearer that God is truthful.
“Have faith in God,” Jesus said.
I will not say much more to you The prince of this world is coming He has no power over me
So turn away from your sins
Then he showed them his hands and his side
After they had made fun of him they took off the robe They put his own clothes back on him Then they led him away to nail him to a cross
whose sin the Lord never counts against them
They have supplied me with what you couldnt give me
He did it to put in place the good things themselves.
The Believers Pray
I have been telling them that since last year you who live in Achaia were ready to give.
This problem caused pain in my body. It is a messenger from Satan to make me suffer.
When his time of service was over, he returned home.
We couldnt wait any longer So we thought it was best to be left by ourselves in Athens
Jesus was getting into the boat. The man who had been controlled by demons begged to go with him.
So let me give you some advice.
Thats the hope we had when we were saved
Remove from your life all evil desires
Jesus said to them, “You try to make yourselves look good in the eyes of other people.
I arrived in London.
There you will find some fish
But anyone who does not believe is judged already They have not believed in the name of Gods one and only Son
And they have obeyed your word
Before the law was given, sin was in the world. This is certainly true.
You have heard him say a very evil thing against God What do you think
All Gods people here send you greetings Most of all those who live in the palace of Caesar send you greetings
The people who had brought false charges against Stephen took off their coats They placed them at the feet of a young man named Saul
I make myself holy for them so that they too can be made holy by the truth.
God removed him and made David their king. Here is God’s witness about him. ‘David, son of Jesse, is a man dear to my heart,’ he said. ‘David will do everything I want him to do.’
But the time will come when the groom will be taken away from them
You circumcise a boy on the Sabbath day You think that if you do you wont break the law of Moses
Three times I was beaten with sticks.
Now you know these things So you will be blessed if you do them
The law that condemns people to death had glory How much more glory does the work of the Spirit have His work makes people right with God
Peter and John continued to preach the word of the Lord and tell people about Jesus. Then they returned to Jerusalem. On the way they preached the good news in many villages in Samaria.
If there is no one to explain the person speaking should keep quiet in the church They can speak to themselves and to God
That day will not come until people rise up against God
So let us never stop offering to God our praise through Jesus
To goodness, add knowledge.
We know that no one who depends on the law is made right with God.
I have held them out to a stubborn people who do not obey me
So the law is holy. The commandment also is holy and right and good.
Tychicus is a dear brother. He is faithful in serving the Lord. He will tell you everything about me. Then you will know how I am and what I am doing.
I don’t do what I want to do.
Faith That Produces Action
If the Son brings glory to God, God himself will bring glory to the Son.
Give us today our daily bread.
I used to speak evil things against Jesus I tried to hurt his followers I really pushed them around But God showed me mercy anyway I did those things without knowing any better I wasnt a believer
After this Judas from Galilee came along This was in the days when the Romans made a list of all the people Judas led a gang of men against the Romans
Even while the boy was coming, the demon threw him into a fit. The boy fell to the ground. But Jesus ordered the evil spirit to leave the boy. Then Jesus healed him and gave him back to his father.
Can trouble
When the Messiah comes, no one will know where he is from.”
Keep watch over yourselves Keep watch over all the believers The Holy Spirit has made you leaders over them
I will use a nation that has no understanding to make you angry.”
The blind man heard the crowd going by. He asked what was happening.
“You are my Son.
But when his brothers had left for the feast, he went also. But he went secretly, not openly.
Can nakedness
Rich People and the Kingdom of God
Everyone in Jerusalem heard about this
Judas, who was going to hand Jesus over, had arranged a signal with them. “The one I kiss is the man,” he said. “Arrest him and have the guards lead him away.”
When others curse us, we bless them.
I found that the commandment that was supposed to bring life actually brought death.
In all my prayers for all of you, I always pray with joy.
No! But this mob knows nothing about the law. There is a curse on them.”
He richly blesses everyone who calls on him.
He said to them, “You know that it is against our law for a Jew to enter a Gentile home. A Jew shouldn’t have any close contact with a Gentile. But God has shown me that I should not say anyone is not pure and ‘clean.’
For me, life finds all its meaning in Christ. Death also has its benefits.
I am the Beginning and the End.
“God opposes those who are proud.
Then the owner of the vineyard said What should I do I have a son and I love him I will send him Maybe they will respect him
I thought like a child.
People went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea They also came from the whole area around the Jordan River
You can tell each tree by the kind of fruit it bears. People do not pick figs from thorns. And they don’t pick grapes from bushes.
I heard a sound from heaven. It was like the roar of rushing waters and loud thunder.
She came to Jesus and said Lord my sister has left me to do the work by myself Dont you care
In the same way, Christ was offered up once. He took away the sins of many people. He will also come a second time. At that time he will not suffer for sin. Instead, he will come to bring salvation to those who are waiting for him.
After they had made fun of him, they took off the robe. They put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him away to nail him to a cross.
Blessed are those who are hungry and thirsty for what is right
Brothers and sisters, in all our trouble and suffering your faith encouraged us.
After I go through Macedonia I will come to you
So Pilate asked him again Arent you going to answer See how many things they charge you with
So Im asking you to follow my example
It is written, “The Gentiles say evil things against God’s name because of you.”
But God has been making it grow.
And you must allow this strength to finish its work Then you will be all you should be You will have everything you need
Im old
But Jesus said, “You are from below.
Abraham gave him a tenth of everything.
Don’t be like that. Instead, anyone who wants to be important among you must be your servant.
glory
So I want you to know that no one who is speaking with the help of God’s Spirit says, “May Jesus be cursed.”
“We have only five loaves of bread and two fish,” they answered.
Or suppose a woman has ten silver coins and loses one Wont she light a lamp and sweep the house Wont she search carefully until se finds the coin
I tell you on that night two people will be in one bed One person will be taken and the other left
The believers themselves report the kind of welcome you gave us They tell about how you turned away from statues of gods And you turned to serve the living and true God
People worshiped the dragon because he had given authority to the beast They also worshiped the beast They asked Who is like the beast Who can make war against it
Wife, how do you know if you will save your husband?
Listen to his voice today
The tails were like snakes whose heads could bite
Dear friends, if our hearts do not judge us, we can be bold with God.
I know what you meant.
I cant wait for you
It is actually reported that there is sexual sin among you
They promised that they would not eat or drink anything until they killed him
What should we say then Should we sin because we are not ruled by the law but by Gods grace Not at all
How terrible for you You build tombs for the prophets It was your people of long ago who killed them
I will send Artemas or Tychicus to you. Then do your best to come to me at Nicopolis. I’ve decided to spend the winter there.
The glory lasted for only a short time Even so the people of Israel couldnt look at Moses face very long
I want to retire soon.
There they nailed Jesus to the cross
When they heard that he was speaking to them in Aramaic, they became very quiet.
Everyone is going to him.”
Here is a true saying. ‘One plant and another gathers.’
Watch out You will be handed over to the local courts You will be whipped in the synagogues You will stand in front of governors and kings because of me In that way you will be witnesses to them
Sopater, son of Pyrrhus, from Berea went with him. Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, Gaius from Derbe, and Timothy went too. Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia Minor also went with him.
Through him everyone who believes is set free from every sin. Moses’ law could not make you right in God’s eyes.
They were surprised to find him talking with a woman.
This problem requires wisdom Anyone who is wise should figure out what the beasts number means It is the number of a man And that number
Are you so foolish? You began by the Holy Spirit. Are you now trying to finish God’s work in you by your own strength?
One of you says I follow Paul
Then what reward do I get
We have become the worlds garbage We are everybodys trash right up to this moment
Here is what the angel told me to write.
The same is true of those who always want more and more People who do these things might as well worship statues of gods
I’m speaking to you who are younger.
They arrived at Salamis. There they preached God’s word in the Jewish synagogues.
Most of all, love one another deeply. Love erases many sins by forgiving them.
“When evening came, the owner of the vineyard spoke to the person who was in charge of the workers. He said, ‘Call the workers and give them their pay. Begin with the last ones I hired. Then go on to the first ones.’
And he is the head of the body which is the church He is the beginning He is the first to be raised from the dead That happened so that he would be far above everything
Werent you joined to an olive tree that was taken care of
That is why I said what the Holy Spirit receives from me he will show to you.”
Jesus said to the servants, “Fill the jars with water.”
The people read it. They were glad for its message of hope.
So speaking in other languages is a sign for those who don’t believe. It is not a sign for those who do believe. But prophecy is not for those who don’t believe.
I pray that now at last it may be God’s plan to open the way for me to visit you
Never stop praying
But it doesn’t find it. Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I left.’
There is more to life than eating. There are more important things for the body than clothes.
It's late.
Greet each one of the friends there
Brothers and sisters, suppose I were to come to you and speak in other languages. What good would I be to you? None! I would need to come with new truth or knowledge. Or I would need to come with a prophecy or a teaching.
If they had they would not have nailed the Lord of glory to the cross
After she said this, she went back home. She called her sister Mary to one side to talk to her. “The Teacher is here,” Martha said. “He is asking for you.”
“Do you understand all these things?” Jesus asked.
The traders of the world will weep and mourn over her No one buys what they sell anymore
Lord Jesus!
Everyone went to their own town to be listed.
If they are thirsty give them something to drink
But some of them wouldn’t listen. They refused to believe. In public they said evil things about the Way of Jesus. So Paul left them. He took the believers with him. Each day he talked with people in the lecture hall of Tyrannus.
Blessed is the one who reads out loud the words of this prophecy.
You say that people should not commit adultery
The Body That Rises From the Dead
So here’s my advice. Buy from me gold made pure by fire. Then you will become rich. Buy from me white clothes to wear. Then you will be able to cover the shame of your naked bodies. And buy from me healing lotion to put on your eyes. Then you will be able to see.
Just as lambs are silent while their wool is being cut off,
Don’t worry about anything. No matter what happens, tell God about everything. Ask and pray, and give thanks to him.
“But he will reply, ‘I don’t know you. And I don’t know where you come from. Get away from me, all you who do evil!’
You have prepared it in the sight of all nations.
Later Jesus was alone The twelve disciples asked him about the stories So did the others around him
When he has done that, the Son also will be under God’s rule. God put everything under the Son. In that way, God will be all in all.
Blessed are those who suffer for doing what is right
The Lord Pours Out His Grace on Paul
you will tell me this. ‘Do the things here in your hometown that weheard you did in Capernaum.’ ”
Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard It was an expensive perfume
No said Peter You will never wash my feet
I wish that you really had begun to rule Then we could also rule with you
When you come together like this, hand this man over to Satan. Then the power of sin in his life will be destroyed. His spirit will be saved on the day the Lord returns.
It has given me great joy to find some of your children living by the truth Thats just what the Father commanded us to do
But Jesus has been given a greater work to do for God
He was made just like human beings.
At one time you were separated from God You were enemies in your minds because of your evil ways
First they must be tested
All of this proves that when God judges, he is fair.
You weren’t pleased
They were whipped without mercy Then they were thrown into prison
You werent pleased
Our dear friend Luke the doctor sends greetings So does Demas
He said, “Lord, they have killed your prophets. They have torn down your altars. I’m the only one left. And they are trying to kill me.”
“The Lord knows who his own people are.”
A man in the crowd answered. “Teacher,” he said, “I brought you my son. He is controlled by an evil spirit. Because of this, my son can’t speak anymore.
Paul’s Vision and His Painful Problem
Whoever eats and drinks must recognize the body of Christ. If they don’t, judgment will come upon them.
Do you have eyes and still dont see Do you have ears and still dont hear And dont you remember
God has shown me amazing and wonderful things. People should not think more of me because of it. So I wouldn’t become proud of myself, I was given a problem.
I cant wait forever
We want to honor the Lord himself. We want to show how ready we are to help.
Jesus went off to the Sea of Galilee with his disciples. A large crowd from Galilee followed.
Show me the coin people use for paying the tax They brought him a silver coin
Then they shouted This is the voice of a god Its not the voice of a man
But now faith in Christ has come. So the law is no longer in charge of us.
He looked around at all of them. Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did, and his hand had been made as good as new.
When he said this, the Pharisees and the Sadducees started to argue. They began to take sides.
To the ability to control you, add the strength to keep going.
So the twelve disciples left They went from village to village They announced the good news and healed people everywhere
When they arrived at Antioch, they gathered the church together. They reported all that God had done through them. They told how he had opened a way for the Gentiles to believe.
There the devil tempted him for fourty days
She followed Paul and the rest of us around. She shouted, “These men serve the Most High God. They are telling you how to be saved.”
And why did he murder him
He stood up to read
Jesus’ mother and brothers came and stood outside. They sent someone in to get him.
He began by saying to them, “Today this passage of Scripture is coming true as you listen.”
So Peter was kept in prison
“Listen to another story. A man who owned some land planted a vineyard. He put a wall around it. He dug a pit for a winepress in it. He also built a lookout tower. He rented the vineyard out to some farmers. Then he moved to another place.
I will also give each of them a white stone with a new name written on it. Only the one who receives this name will know what it is.’
After a little while those standing nearby said to Peter You must be one of them You are from Galilee
Those who think they know something still don’t know as they should.
Even our father Abraham gave him a tenth of what he had captured
My Father will honor the one who serves me
And remember those who are treated badly as if you yourselves were suffering.
The woman was dressed in purple and bright red She was gleaming with gold jewels and pearls In her hand she held a golden cup filled with things that God hates It was filled with her terrible dirty sins
“Teacher,” they said, “Moses wrote for us about a man who died and didn’t have any children. But he did leave a wife behind. That man’s brother must get married to the widow. He must provide children to carry on his dead brother’s name.
When Pilate heard that he brought Jesus out Pilate sat down on the judges seat It was at a place called the Stone Walkway
Farmer Tewetu Reta is a resident of the Tsirshmen village of Sahla Seyemt district 
What Im about to tell you is true What you lock on earth will be locked in heaven What you unlock on earth will be unlocked in heaven
In this way all Israel will be saved. It is written,
Many people were made sinners because one man did not obey But one man did obey That is why many people will be made right with God
I’m speaking like a fool!
So be careful that none of you fails to receive it
But Mary stayed at home
Two rebels against Rome were crucified with him One was on his right and one was on his left
Living in a Way That Pleases God
But the first servant refused Instead he went and had the man thrown into prison The man would be held there until he could pay back what he owed
Soon a woman heard about him An evil spirit controlled her little daughter The woman came to Jesus and fell at his feet
When Jesus said I am he they moved back Then they fell to the ground
She gave birth to a son.
Do all speak in languages they had not known before
But after many sins Gods gift made people right with him
They began to bring charges against Jesus. They said, “We have found this man misleading our people. He is against paying taxes to Caesar. And he claims to be Messiah, a king.”
So Jesus appointed the  disciples.
There they met a Jew named Bar-Jesus
You are God’s chosen people. You are holy and dearly loved. So put on tender mercy and kindness as if they were your clothes. Don’t be proud. Be gentle and patient.
Everyone’s mouth will say that Jesus Christ is Lord.
We know that we have left our old dead way of life. And we have entered into new life. We know this because we love one another. Anyone who doesn’t love still lives in their old condition.
This beast had all the authority of the first beast. It did what the first beast wanted.
He said to Jesus I will give you all their authority and glory
It is also written The Lord knows that the thoughts of wise people dont amount to anything
“Teacher,” said John, “we saw someone driving out demons in your name. We told him to stop, because he was not one of us.”
She wondered what kind of greeting this could be.
I am coming to you now
It was the night before Herod was going to bring him to trial. Peter was sleeping between two soldiers. Two chains held him there. Lookouts stood guard at the entrance.
The one whom God has sent speaks God’s words. That’s because God gives the Holy Spirit without limit.
So there was great joy in that city
A man named Ananias and his wife Sapphira also sold some land
The Sadducees came to Jesus with a question They do not believe that people rise from the dead
There the Holy Spirit showed me a woman sitting on a bright red beastIt was covered with names that say evil things about God It had seven heads and ten horns
Where is the wise person?
But Jesus came and touched them. “Get up,” he said. “Don’t be afraid.”
The world was not worthy of them. They wandered in deserts and mountains. They lived in caves. They lived in holes in the ground.
“Their voice has gone out into the whole earth.
I dont speak German
Eber was the son of Shelah
There will be no more night. They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun. The Lord God will give them light. They will rule for ever and ever.
Philip was seen next at Azotus
Who makes you different from anyone else? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you brag as though you did not?
He has given me power to do signs and wonders. I can do these things by the power of the Spirit of God. From Jerusalem all the way around to Illyricum I have finished preaching. In those places, I preached the good news about Christ.
If no one rises from the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.
Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church. The elders had trusted in the Lord.
But when someone stronger attacks he is overpowered The attacker takes away the armor the man had trusted in
Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Haven’t I seen Jesus our Lord? Aren’t you the result of my work for the Lord?
She was pregnant She cried out in pain because she was about to have a baby
So they came and said they were sorry. They led them out of the prison.
They asked him Who is this fellow Who told you to pick it up and walk
Suppose someone thinks they know more than we do. So they don’t follow Christ’s teaching. Then that person doesn’t belong to God. But whoever follows Christ’s teaching belongs to the Father and the Son.
But do not measure the outer courtyard Thats because it has been given to the Gentiles They will take over the holy city for fourty two months
Take a good look at yourselves to see if you are really believers Test yourselves Dont you realize that Christ Jesus is in you Unless of course you fail the test
As soon as Jesus was baptized, he came up out of the water. At that moment heaven was opened. Jesus saw the Spirit of God coming down on him like a dove.
and through the lips of outsiders
Here is a saying that you can trust. It should be accepted completely. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. And I am the worst sinner of all.
But first the Son of Man must suffer many things He will not be accepted by the people of today
“Where have you put him?” he asked.
He gave them ears that could not hear.
Im right
A person is not a Jew if they are a Jew only on the outside
Then the evil spirits gathered the kings together. In the Hebrew language, the place where the kings met is called Armageddon.
Look I am coming like a thief Blessed is anyone who stays awake and keeps their clothes on Then they will be ready They will not be caught naked and so be put to shame
dont be surprised if the world hates you
They have been a comfort to me.
If we let him keep on doing this everyone will believe in him Then the Romans will come
And you know where I am from.
The great day of their anger has come Who can live through it
Besides, he has brought Greeks into the temple. He has made this holy place ‘unclean.’ ”
It will guide our feet on the path of peace.”
Paul talked about how to live a godly life. He talked about how people should control themselves. He also talked about the time when God will judge everyone. Then Felix became afraid. “That’s enough for now!” he said. “You may leave. When I find the time, I will send for you.”
They saw some of his disciples eating food with “unclean” hands. That means they were not washed.
Instead, warn them as you would warn another believer.
Paul replied I dont care if it takes a short time or a long time I pray to God for you and all who are listening to me today
Titus I am sending you this letter You are my true son in the faith we share
If you dont I will come to you soon
In this world you will have trouble.
When they had done so, they caught a large number of fish. There were so many that their nets began to break.
Whoever doesnt carry their cross and follow me cant be my disciple
If he had, he would have had to suffer many times since the world was created. But he has appeared once and for all time.
That is why it is said
It never gives up.
I myself am a man who is under authority
Here comes the train.
You are the body of Christ
He had said Lord who is going to hand you over to your enemies
Put on your coat
The Man of Sin
He has saved us from the kingdom of darkness He has brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves
The word of God and prayer make it holy
There is no Jew or Gentile
‘I am not the Messiah. I was sent ahead of him.’
Anyone who speaks in a language they had not known before doesn’t speak to people. They speak only to God. In fact, no one understands them. What they say by the Spirit remains a mystery.
I will put my laws in their minds
Another said I have just bought five pairs of oxen Im on my way to try them out Please excuse me
The voice said, “Write on a scroll what you see.
Herod had Johns head cut off in the prison
At that time he will not suffer for sin.
He shouted to all the birds flying high in the air,
There in front of me was a white horse
What should we do
But those who think they belong in the kingdom will be thrown outside into the darkness There they will weep and grind their teeth
A second angel followed him.
If he dies she is free to marry anyone she wants to
Brothers and sisters, we are asking you to warn certain people. These people don’t want to work. Instead, they make trouble. We are also asking you to encourage those who have lost hope. Help those who are weak. Be patient with everyone.
We know that we have left our old dead way of life And we have entered into new life We know this because we love one another Anyone who doesnt love still lives in their old condition
Jesus saw the crowd around him So he gave his disciples orders to go to the other side of the Sea of Galilee
I do not get rid of the grace of God.
And do not make a promise in your own name. You can’t make even one hair of your head white or black.
But Felix wanted to do the Jews a favor So he left Paul in prison
Jesus went from there to a place near Tyre He entered a house He did not want anyone to know where he was But he could not keep it a secret
But whoever does what God wants them to do lives forever
Who is this ‘Son of Man’?”
I will be their God and they will be my children
Have you already become rich
Jacob had faith. So he blessed each of Joseph’s sons. He blessed them when he was dying.
All food is clean
We live by believing, not by seeing.
The Father who sent me is himself a witness about me. You have never heard his voice. You have never seen what he really looks like.
We have come to believe and to know that you are the Holy One of God
It is like yeast that a woman used She mixed it into  pounds of flour The yeast worked its way all through the dough
Paul gathered some sticks and put them on the fire A poisonous snake was driven out by the heat It fastened itself on Pauls hand
Anyone who follows me will never walk in darkness.
Who is that old man?
Look! I have put an open door in front of you. No one can shut it.
You do not know me or my Father Jesus replied If you knew me you would know my Father also
He replied Isaiah was right He prophesied about you people who pretend to be good He said
He must not love money
Meanwhile Simon Peter was still standing there warming him by the fire
They lived in caves. They lived in holes in the ground.
I think you're stupid.
You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you.
There is someone else who is a witness in my favor
I am the least important of the apostles. I’m not even fit to be called an apostle. I tried to destroy God’s church.
The king was very upset But he thought of his promise and his dinner guests So he told one of his men to give her what she asked for
When it was full the fishermen pulled it up on the shore Then they sat down and gathered the good fish into baskets But they threw the bad fish away
So I’m asking you not to give in to your sinful desires. They fight against your soul.
Peter said, “Explain this to us.”
He did it so that we would die as far as sins are concerned.
I never liked biology
How can he now say I came down from heaven
You will hear about wars You will also hear people talking about future wars Dont be alarmed These things must happen But the end still isnt here
I want you to remember the words the holy prophets spoke in the past. Remember the command our Lord and Savior gave through your apostles.
And they must believe that he rewards those who look to him.
You are honored
You were stubborn when you opposed meYou did that when you were tested in the desert
The world and its evil desires are passing away
When he saw the man, he felt sorry for him.
Who is worthy to break the seals
The city was made out of pure gold, as pure as glass.
Keep in mind the good of the person who told you
“Fellow Israelites, listen to this! Jesus of Nazareth was a man who had God’s approval. God did miracles, wonders and signs among you through Jesus. You yourselves know this.
Those who claim to belong to him must live just as Jesus did
Peter came to Jesus He asked Lord how many times should I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me Up to seven times
When Jesus entered Jerusalem the whole city was stirred up The people asked Who is this
But you must not be like that. Instead, the most important among you should be like the youngest. The one who rules should be like the one who serves.
Greet Mary. She worked very hard for you.
“I will be his Father.
I tell you the tax collector went home accepted by God But not the Pharisee All those who lift themselves up will be made humble And those who make themselves humble will be lifted up
Some believers came to me and told me that you are faithful to the truth. They told me that you continue to live by it. This news gave me great joy.
He explained and proved that the Messiah had to suffer and rise from the dead This Jesus I am telling you about is the Messiah he said
You yourselves are our letter. You are written on our hearts. Everyone knows you and reads you.
have put up with a lot of trouble because of me.
Take away the stone he said
But suppose you suffer for being a Christian. Then don’t be ashamed. Instead, praise God because you are known by the name of Christ.
you will see God’s glory?”
When he arrived he was a great help to those who had become believers by Gods grace
God Speaks His Final Word through His Son
That’s because the devil has been sinning from the beginning.
curved blade for cutting grain.
Two years passed. Porcius Festus took the place of Felix.
And God is joined to them.
Then Cornelius can hear what you have to say.”
Then God will add to that person the plagues told about in this book
Suppose a person claims to have faith but doesn’t act on their faith. My brothers and sisters, can this kind of faith save them?
No one who wants to be well known does things in secret
Then Paul left the synagogue and went to the house next door.
Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven
This is the first and most important commandment.
But if you are slaves who obey God, then you will live a godly life.
he had said But you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit
Death where is your sting
When the voice had spoken they found that Jesus was alone
Birds have another kind.
That person is worse off than before.
It will shine on those living in darkness and in the shadow of death
The one who came down is the same one who went up. He went up higher than all the heavens. He did it in order to fill all creation.
All of this has come to us because we know the God who chose us. He chose us because of his own glory and goodness.
In the name of the Lord Jesus we ask and beg you to do it more and more
Peter said to Jesus, “Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters. One will be for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
Jesus said to them, “This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms must come true.”
There the commander found a ship from Alexandria sailing for Italy. He put us on board.
-He replied, “Because your faith is much too small. What I’m about to tell you is true. If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, it is enough. You can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there.’ And it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.”
Then the dead will be raised to live forever.
Also set an example in how you love
Then he said to them, “Watch out! Be on your guard against wanting to have more and more things.
“Why were you looking for me?” he asked.
They won’t listen to the mere human commands of people who turn away from the truth.
They tried very hard to get Festus to have Paul taken to Jerusalem. They asked for this as a favor.
“No,” he answered.
I want you to remember the words the holy prophets spoke in the past
Joseph had faith. So he spoke to the people of Israel about how they would leave Egypt someday. When his death was near, he spoke about where to bury his bones.
When he was treated badly he was refused a fair trial
Who is the prophet talking about
Then he put the man on his own donkey. He brought him to an inn and took care of him.
At that hour of the night, the jailer took Paul and Silas and washed their wounds. Right away he and everyone who lived with him were baptized.
He said to them Go to the village ahead of you As soon as you get there you will find a donkey tied up Her colt will be with her Untie them and bring them to me
Show proper respect to everyone. Love the family of believers. Have respect for God. Honor the emperor.
I miss Mary's cooking.
I have spoken all these things while I am still with you
The Father who sent me commanded me to say all that I have said
Help me
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Philadelphia.
The whole moon turned as red as blood
Then why do we each hear them speaking in our own native language?
you do not accept me
to show his Son in my life. He wanted me to preach about Jesus among the Gentiles. When God appointed me, I decided right away not to ask anyone for advice.
Then the angel said to me, “Why are you amazed? I will explain to you the mystery of the woman. And I will explain the mystery of the beast she rides on. The beast is the one who has the seven heads and ten horns.
Lie still
But no one accepts what he says
The harbor wasn’t a good place for ships to stay during winter. So most of the people decided we should sail on. They hoped we would reach Phoenix. They wanted to spend the winter there. Phoenix was a harbor in Crete. It faced both southwest and northwest.
Dont forget to do well Dont forget to share with others God is pleased with those kinds of offerings
Pauls Work for the Church
Brothers and sisters, here is what I want you to know. What has happened to me has actually helped to spread the good news.
I am the God of your fathers I am the God of Abraham Isaac and Jacob
Where is the teacher of the law
He was buried. His tomb is still here today.
You killed the one who gives life
What if they had been thinking of the country they had left? Then they could have returned to it.
It is written The one who gathered a lot didnt have too much And the one who gathered a little had enough
in my prayers. I pray that now at last it may be God’s plan to open the way for me to visit you.
Each day Jesus taught at the temple And each evening he went to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives
Let us hold firmly to the hope we claim to have
Those days will be worse than any others from the time God created the world until now. And there will never be any like them again.
So he promised to give her anything she asked for.
He uses his powerful word to hold all things together.
Christ died for everyone He died so that those who live should not live for themselves anymore They should live for Christ He died for them and was raised again
It shows us that the gifts and sacrifices people offered were not enough.
So one man’s sin brought guilt to all people.
But they kept shouting, “Crucify him! Crucify him!”
This is because the Father loves the Son. The Father shows him everything he does. Yes and the Father will show the Son even greater works than these. And you will be amazed.
Who is the fence you lifted
After this, Jesus went around in Galilee. He didn’t want to travel around in Judea. That was because the Jewish leaders there were looking for a way to kill him.
Jesus replied The time has come for the Son of Man to receive glory
You blind guides! You remove the smallest insect from your food. But you swallow a whole camel!
He asked this only to test Philip. He already knew what he was going to do.
you know that what we say is true
Follow what you heard from me as the pattern of true teaching. Follow it with faith and love because you belong to Christ Jesus.
Do you want proof that faith without good deeds is useless?
“His master replied, ‘You evil, lazy slave! So you knew that I harvest where I have not planted? You knew that I gather crops where I have not scattered seed?
Follow the lead of one another because of your respect for Christ.
What is this child going to be
Jesus replied Thats right Elijah does come first He makes all things new again So why is it written that the Son of Man must suffer much and not be accepted
You have heard that the great enemy of Christ is coming
He will help you who are troubled. And he will also help us. All these things will happen when the Lord Jesus appears from heaven. He will come in blazing fire. He will come with his powerful angels.
John the Baptist Is Born
The people were amazed. Those who could not speak were speaking. The disabled were made well. Those not able to walk were walking. Those who were blind could see. So the people praised the God of Israel.
A storm came down on the lake.
I wanted to spare you so I didnt return to Corinth
“Put on your coat,”
But you are looking for a way to kill me. You have no room for my word.
Herod and his soldiers laughed at him and made fun of him. They dressed him in a beautiful robe. Then they sent him back to Pilate.
They are a law for themselves. This is true even though they don’t have the law.
They must be stopped They are making trouble for entire families They do this by teaching things they shouldnt They do these things to cheat people
Whoever does not pick up their cross and follow me is not worthy of me.
But here is what I tell you Do not even look at a woman in the wrong way Anyone who does has already committed adultery with her in his heart
Be Fair When You Judge Other People
No one pours new wine into old wineskins
Even those who are circumcised don’t obey the law. But they want you to be circumcised. Then they can brag about what has been done to your body.
But Jesus kept looking around He wanted to see who had touched him
The most important person among you will be your servant.
They knew for certain that I came from you
He said I wish you had known today what would bring you peace But now it is hidden from your eyes
Even now the one who gathers the crop is getting paid. They are already harvesting the crop for eternal life. So the one who plants and the one who gathers can now be glad together.
But Jesus walked right through the crowd and went on his way.Jesus Drives Out an Evil Spirit
And here is what God has promised us. He has promised us eternal life.
I have brought you glory on earth. I have finished the work you gave me to do.
Then Satan entered Judas, who was called Iscariot. Judas was one of the  disciples.
About noon a bright light from heaven suddenly flashed around me.
and wisdom be given to our God for ever and ever.
How terrible for you, Bethsaida!
Nahor was the son of Serug.
So we were happy to share with you God’s good news.
God’s servants will serve him.
Jesus was standing in front of the governor. The governor asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?”
Jesus came, took the bread and gave it to them. He did the same thing with the fish.
Tell him what you have seen and heard.
While Peter was still speaking a bright cloud covered them A voice from the cloud said This is my Son and I love him I am very pleased with him Listen to him
They dont have any respect for God
God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose.
Every eye will see him.
The people took the young man home.
I dont go to school
Lord he said have mercy on my son He shakes wildly and suffers a great deal He often falls into the fire or into the water
So he went to the Pharisees house He took his place at the table
Jesus Christ was born as we are, and he died on the cross.
It includes sexual sins
Philip said Lord show us the Father That will be enough for us
I pray to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ God is the glorious Father
Paul Serves the Gentiles
Take care of the widows who really need help.
I make myself holy for them so that they too can be made holy by the truth
I have to go to bed.
Jesus said, “You believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree. You will see greater things than that.”
Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul.
There will be terrible suffering in those days. It will be worse than any other from the beginning of the world until now. And there will never be anything like it again.
So the temple authorities arrested Peter and John.
Will you thank the servant because he did what he was told to do
Young Iyasu W/Slas is a resident of the city of Tsitsqa።
They were afraid we would crash against the rocks. So they dropped four anchors from the back of the ship. They prayed that daylight would come.
The next day Jesus and those who were with him came down from the mountain.
He appeared to Peter.
Don’t pay back evil with evil. Be careful to do what everyone thinks is right.
Jesus saw their faith So he said to the man Son your sins are forgiven
These six brothers here went with me
So also we are many persons. But in Christ we are one body. And each part of the body belongs to all the other parts.
When you were baptized you were buried together with Christ
Their king was the angel of the Abyss. In the Hebrew language his name is Abaddon. In Greek it is Apollyon. His name means Destroyer.
There will be no more death.’
Brothers and sisters, what if someone is caught in a sin? Then you who live by the Spirit should correct that person. Do it in a gentle way. But be careful. You could be tempted too.
A woman has to stay married to her husband as long as he lives If he dies she is free to marry anyone she wants to But the one she marries must belong to the Lord
We know that we have come to know God if we obey his commands.
dressed in fine linen, purple and bright red!
Sarah will have a son.”
So he said to Philip Where can we buy bread for these people to eat
Seven angels were about to bring the seven last plagues.
Jesus said to her, “Will you give me a drink?”
She walks
Don’t fight with each other or be jealous of anyone.
He was not harmed.
Abraham was patient while he waited Then he received what God promised him
Because of their faith they took over kingdoms.
I told you that you would die in your sins. This will happen if you don’t believe that I am he. If you don’t believe, you will certainly die in your sins.”
He was with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai Moses was with our people of long ago
Forgive other people when they sin against you. If you do, your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you.
Jesus was handed over to die for our sins
I have not come on my own. God sent me.
The child grew up
It is better to get married than to burn with desire.
Your word is truth
But Scripture has locked up everything under the control of sin. It does so in order that what was promised might be given to those who believe.
Gods servants will serve him
But God didn’t use a go-between when he made his promise to Abraham.
All this took about four hundred fifty years After this God gave them judges until the time of Samuel the prophet
Anyone who does what my Father in heaven wants is my brother or sister or mother
Think about how kind God is Also think about how firm he is
Or is it also for those who are not circumcised
They claim to know God But their actions show they dont know him They are hated by God They refuse to obey him They arent fit to do anything good
-They crucified with him two rebels against Rome.
May it happen to me just as you said it would
Listen A farmer went out to plant his seed
Christ also suffered once for sins
We were also happy to share our lives with you
I am sending it to the lady chosen by God and to her children. I love all of you because of the truth.
Jesus was leaving the temple One of his disciples said to him Look Teacher What huge stones What wonderful buildings
Scripture says
You haven’t come to a mountain that can be touched. You haven’t come to a mountain burning with fire. You haven’t come to darkness, gloom and storm.
No In all these things we are more than winners
From that time on, the disciple took her into his home.
it must be killed with stones.”
In the same way Abraham believed God God was pleased with Abraham because he believed So his faith made him right with God
We couldn’t wait any longer. So we thought it was best to be left by ourselves in Athens.
They said to Peter and the other apostles
Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. “Simon,” he said to Peter, “are you asleep? Couldn’t you keep watch for one hour?
The seventh angel blew his trumpet. There were loud voices in heaven. They said,
As Jesus looked up he saw rich people putting their gifts into the temple offering boxes
Jesus said to them, “You will drink the cup I drink. And you will go through the baptism I go through.
Then what did you go out to see?
Still others were saying that a prophet of long ago had come back to life
Why do the people make useless plans?
“Don’t be alarmed,” he said. “You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who was crucified. But he has risen! He is not here! See the place where they had put him.
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin.
This is the truth you can trust and accept completely.
Lord Ananias answered Ive heard many reports about this man They say he has done great harm to your holy people in Jerusalem
A widow who really needs help and is left all alone puts her hope in God.
Then the angel said to him, “Put on your clothes and sandals.” Peter did so. “Put on your coat,” the angel told him. “Follow me.”
Do I say this only on human authority? The Law says the same thing.
Amen
Instead, pay back evil with kind words.
One will be taken and the other left.”
He will be back soon.
He said Go away The girl is not dead She is sleeping But they laughed at him
It is a direct command from the Lord not from me
Everyone who loves has become a child of God
The Thousand Years
Arent you acting like ordinary human beings
Get up and call on his name Be baptized
I know what you did
He has given us the power to serve under a new covenant
God himself has taught you to love one another
Moses was with the Israelites in the desert.
The fact is, you have had five husbands.
Peter asked, “Lord, are you telling this story to us, or to everyone?”
So Judas went to Jesus at once. Judas said, “Rabbi!” And he kissed Jesus.
People are in charge of the property. And other people are in charge of the children. The children remain under their care until they become adults. At that time their fathers give them the property.
I will appoint my two witnesses And they will prophesy for one thousend two hundred sixity days They will be dressed in the rough clothes people wear when theyre sad
He will come and kill them He will give the vineyard to others
Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him
Im not saying you should pray about that sin
Long ago Isaiah the prophet wrote,“I will send my messenger ahead of you, He will prepare your way.”
You will receive many blessings in heaven
Just as Jesus was speaking, Judas appeared. He was one of the  disciples. A crowd was with him. They were carrying swords and clubs. The chief priests, the teachers of the law, and the elders had sent them.
So they arrested them and put them in the public jail.
Hallelujah
Go in peace
Here is what people who belong to this world do They try to satisfy what their sinful desires want to do
He also saw the funeral cloth that had been wrapped around Jesus’ head. The cloth was still lying in its place. It was separate from the linen.
Jesus said, “A man from an important family went to a country far away. He went there to be made king and then return home.
Now angels are stronger and more powerful than these people. But even angels don’t speak evil things against heavenly beings. They don’t do this when they bring judgment on them from the Lord.
A gentle south wind began to blow The ships crew thought they saw their chance to leave safely So they pulled up the anchor and sailed along the shore of Crete
It is written, “The first man Adam became a living person.”  The last Adam became a spirit that gives life.
Then the young men came in. They saw that Sapphira was dead.
God set me apart to tell others his good news writing this letter
You should know that just a little yeast works its way through the whole batch of dough
The good news was announced to our people of long ago It has also been preached to us The message they heard didnt have any value for them Thats because they didnt share the faith of those who obeyed
His father was sick in bed The man suffered from fever and dysentery So Paul went in to see him
He said, ‘Who made you ruler and judge over us?
And I will continue to be glad.
Jesus replied to him Who is my mother And who are my brothers
I know what you are doing
You had Jesus killed by nailing him to a cross. But the God of our people raised Jesus from the dead.
They knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away. That is how it will be when the Son of Man comes.
When you sin the pay you get is death
As evening approached a rich man came from the town of Arimathea His name was Joseph He had become a follower of Jesus
There was a rainbow above his head.
Anyone who does what my Father in heaven wants is my brother or sister or mother.”
Who is it that has won the battle over the world Only the person who believes that Jesus is the Son of God
She came up behind Jesus and touched the edge of his clothes
It was as wide and high as it was long.
They will be destroyed forever. They will be shut out of heaven. They will never see the glory of the Lord’s strength.
The Son is the exact likeness of God, who can’t be seen.
If the governor hears this report, we will pay him off.
Peter kept on knocking. When they opened the door and saw him, they were amazed.
I continued singing
What he saw is God’s word and what Jesus Christ has said.
Philip found Nathanael and told him, “We have found the one whom Moses wrote about in the Law.
Crispus was the synagogue leader. He and everyone living in his house came to believe in the Lord. Many others who lived in Corinth heard Paul. They too believed and were baptized.
After all, he chose them. Don’t you know what Scripture says about Elijah?
Jesus replied Foxes have dens
So how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?
So Abraham is the father of all believers who have not been circumcised.
Should we do good
What Im about to tell you is true The people living now will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened
They put it down at the apostles’ feet. It was then given out to anyone who needed it.
He has made us members of his royal family. He has made us priests who serve his God and Father.
After that, he poured water into a large bowl. Then he began to wash his disciples’ feet. He dried them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
Your family line will continue through Isaac
“He said to them, ‘You also go and work in my vineyard.’
In the same way the rebels who were being crucified with Jesus also made fun of him.
It shone with the glory of God
But Sarah believed that the God who made the promise was faithful.
A Warning and an Appeal
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin I will do it for anyone who carries out my plans to the end I will give that person authority over the nations
This happened during the Feast of Unleavened Bread.
For you, any time would be the right time.
You shouldnt stop giving yourselves to each other You might possibly do this when you both agree to it And you should only agree to it to give yourselves time to pray
If I hadn’t, they would not be guilty of sin.
He wants us to be holy and godly as long as we live
But not all the people of Israel accepted the good news.
She was the daughter of Penuel from the tribe of Asher. Anna was very old. After getting married, she lived with her husband seven years.
While the members of the Sanhedrin were throwing stones at Stephen, he prayed. “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit,” he said.
Welcome others into your homes without complaining.
There will no longer be any curse
So don’t let sin rule your body, which is going to die. Don’t obey its evil desires.
I am warning everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book
We have now heard for ourselves.
None of you should sin against your brother or sister by doing that. You should not take advantage of your brother or sister. The Lord will punish everyone who commits these kinds of sins. We have already told you and warned you about this.
When they saw him they worshiped him
But you have disrespected poor people Arent rich people taking advantage of you Arent they dragging you into court
Pray that you will not have to escape in winter or on the Sabbath day
If the governor hears this report, we will pay him off. That will keep you out of trouble.”
He wrote about me
It is planted as an earthly body But it is raised as a spiritual body
So the man watched them closely. He expected to get something from them.
Im writing these things to warn you I am warning you about people trying to lead you astray
The foundations of the city walls were decorated with every kind of jewel
God sent them to Babylon and even farther
News about him spread through the whole countryside
The sun had stopped shining The temple curtain was torn in two
As you eat some of you go ahead and eat your own private meals
After that God will judge them
The Son of Man will send out his angels They will weed out of his kingdom everything that causes sin They will also get rid of all who do evil
But that happened so that we would not depend on ourselves but on God. He raises the dead to life.
Don’t be controlled by love for money.
I was circumcised on the eighth day. I am part of the people of Israel. I am from the tribe of Benjamin. I am a pure Hebrew. As far as the law is concerned, I am a Pharisee.
If we are having trouble, it is so that you will be comforted and renewed. If we are comforted, it is so that you will be comforted.
In the end it will be burned
But I didnt want to do anything unless you agreed
After six days Jesus took Peter, James and John with him. He led them up a high mountain. They were all alone. There in front of them his appearance was changed.
For three Sabbath days in a row he talked with the Jews about the Scriptures
God does not take back his gifts. He does not change his mind about those he has chosen.
David was blessed by God. So David asked if he could build a house for the God of Jacob.
The star opened the Abyss Then smoke rose up from it like the smoke from a huge furnace The sun and sky were darkened by the smoke from the Abyss
We know that all that God created has been groaning. It is in pain as if it were giving birth to a child. The created world continues to groan even now.
He asked what time his son got better. They said to him, “Yesterday, at one o’clock in the afternoon, the fever left him.”
Then he threw him into the Abyss. He locked it and sealed him in. This was to keep Satan from causing the nations to believe his lies anymore.
What I’m about to tell you is true.
Jesus commanded Peter, “Put your sword away!
Judas bought a field with the payment he received for the evil thing he had done. He fell down headfirst in the field. His body burst open. All his insides spilled out.
The Law and the Prophets were read aloud. Then the leaders of the synagogue sent word to Paul and his companions. They said, “Brothers, do you have any words of instruction for the people? If you do, please speak.”
“From this man’s family line God has brought to Israel the Savior Jesus. This is what he had promised.
Whoever speaks on their own does it to get personal honor.
So you show that you agree with what your people did long ago
After this Jesus traveled around from one town and village to anotherHe announced the good news of Gods kingdom
even though I am not considered importantFrom now on all people will call me blessed
My children and I are in bed
I don’t want you to be sharing with demons.
The people of Sodom and Gomorrah
The Holy Spirit clearly says that in the last days some people will leave the faith. They will follow spirits that will fool them. They will believe things that demons will teach them.
And where the Spirit of the Lord is, freedom is also there.
We are considered as sheep to be killed.”
Paul placed his hands on them Then the Holy Spirit came on them
Right away her bleeding stopped.
Peter didnt really know what to say because they were so afraid
Sin Faith and Duty
The next day we left and arrived at Caesarea.
Jesus Teaches About Divorce
“‘The people will say to the mountains, “Fall on us!”
This kind of person remains joined to God.
But I think its necessary to send Epaphroditus back to you
Jesus asked Werent all ten healed Where are the other nine
Then you will hold on to faith You will hold on to a good sense of what is right and wrong
Not at all
God said, “Be sure to make everything just like the pattern I showed you on the mountain.”
Your faith doesn’t mean anything either.
All these things will happen when the Lord Jesus appears from heavenHe will come in blazing fire He will come with his powerful angels
You can’t do anything without me.
The crowd was amazed.
May Onesiphorus find mercy from the Lord on the day Jesus returns as judge
He will enter a house Say to its owner The Teacher asks Where is my guest room Where can I eat the Passover meal with my disciples
Others said He seems to be telling us about gods weve never heard of
At harvest time he sent a servant to the renters. He told the servant to collect from them some of the fruit of the vineyard.
You have received the Spirit from the Holy One. And all of you know the truth.
The beast was given a mouth to brag and speak evil things against God.
Nathan was the son of David.
It is God’s power to save everyone who believes.
Suppose you, with all your knowledge, are eating in a temple of one of those gods. And suppose someone who has a weak sense of what is right and wrong sees you. Won’t that person become bold and eat what is sacrificed to statues of gods?
The city had a huge high wall with tewelve gates
It is really at work in you who believe
He wants me to tell others about the good news of Gods grace
They give thanks to God.
Soon only Jesus was left. The woman was still standing there.
“The head of John the Baptist,” she answered.
Always be joyful because you belong to the Lord I will say it again Be joyful
He still hasn’t let us know what we will be.
He gives life to the world.”
Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our message?”
Provide horses for Paul so that he may be taken safely to Governor Felix
Tychicus will tell you all the news about me He is a dear brother He is a faithful worker He serves the Lord together with us
Take a good look at yourselves to see if you are really believers. Test yourselves. Don’t you realize that Christ Jesus is in you? Unless, of course, you fail the test!
But God is faithful and fair If we confess our sins
You brag that you know God
“I am the true vine. My Father is the gardener.
Then I heard a loud voice in heaven It said
They came to a place called Golgotha. The word Golgotha means the Place of the Skull.
The star opened the Abyss
However, nine years later it was said that by the French in two thousend one, any hatch could be learned።
Instead they will try to satisfy their own desires
As he was praying, the appearance of his face changed. His clothes became as bright as a flash of lightning.
Every tongue will have to tell the truth about God
Then he put his right hand on me and said
We know that people everywhere are talking against those who believe as you do.”
The next day we went on to Neapolis
“I have much more to say to you.
I tell you use the riches of this world to help others In that way you will make friends for yourselves Then when your riches are gone you will be welcomed into your eternal home in heaven
At one time you were in the dark But now you are in the light because of what the Lord has done Live like children of the light
But if you cant control yourselves you should get married It is better to get married than to burn with desire
Then they worshiped him. With great joy, they returned to Jerusalem.
We have seen him with our eyes
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed. He said to those following him, “What I’m about to tell you is true. In Israel I have not found anyone whose faith is so strong.
But I am going there to wake him up
One man sinned, and death ruled over all people because of his sin. What will happen is even surer than this. Those who receive the rich supply of God’s grace will rule with Christ. They will rule in his kingdom. They have received God’s gift and have been made right with him. This will happen because of what the one man, Jesus Christ, has done.
“Here is what the story means. The seed is God’s message.
“The kings of the earth who committed terrible sins with her will weep. They will mourn because they used to share her riches. They will see the smoke rising as she burns.
The Cost of Being a Disciple
“When Moses was  years old, he decided to visit the people of Israel. They were his own people.
“What I’m about to tell you is true. Some who are standing here will not die before they see God’s kingdom.”
“I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep.
People are in charge of the property And other people are in charge of the children The children remain under their care until they become adults At that time their fathers give them the property
In that way, God will be all in all.
We are full of joy in God because of our Lord Jesus Christ Because of him God has brought us back to himself
Dear friends, I’m not writing you a new command. Instead, I’m writing one you have heard before. You have had it since the beginning.
And a husband must not divorce his wife
Hes a tennis player
I can swim
My power is strongest when you are weak.”
One of you is going to hand me over to my enemies.”
Is anyone among you in trouble? Then that person should pray.
I was appointed to be a messenger and an apostle to preach the good news I am telling the truth Im not lying God appointed me to be a true and faithful teacher of the Gentiles
“Sir,” the disabled man replied, “I have no one to help me into the pool when an angel stirs up the water. I try to get in, but someone else always goes down ahead of me.”
Through Christ we can be sure of this before God
False messiahs and false prophets will appear They will do great signs and miracles They will try to fool Gods chosen people if possible
I answered, “Sir,
From now on, you do know him.
Then Jesus said to Simon Dont be afraid From now on you will fish for people
But this will happen so that this passage of Scripture will come true.
God’s word lives in you.
So let us keep the Feast, but not with the old bread made with yeast. The yeast I’m talking about is hatred and evil. Let us keep the Feast with bread made without yeast. Let us keep it with bread that is honesty and truth.
Jesus continued There was a man who had two sons
The man got up and went home.
About three thousand  people joined the believers that day
So they did not break his legs.
you won’t find me’? And what did he mean when he said, ‘You can’t come where I am going’?”
There is only one Lawgiver and Judge. He is the God who is able to save life or destroy it. But who are you to judge your neighbor?
I want you to remember the words the holy prophets spoke in the past.
The one who sat there shone like jasper and ruby
In that case you would have to leave this world
Christ is the one we preach about. With all the wisdom we have, we warn and teach everyone. When we bring them to God, we want them to be like Christ. We want them to be grown up as people who belong to Christ.
Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Then Pilate said to them, “Here is the man!”
But who are you
It is like a mustard seed Someone took the seed and planted it in a garden It grew and became a tree The birds sat in its branches
Only let us live up to what we have already reached
I Paul am an old man I am now also a prisoner because of Christ Jesus
Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church. The elders had trusted in the Lord. Paul and Barnabas prayed and fasted. They placed the elders in the Lord’s care.
They said he was a god.
They looked around. Suddenly they no longer saw anyone with them except Jesus.
This went on for two years.
Then he put his hands on her. Right away she stood up straight and praised God.
But he will burn up the husks with fire that can’t be put out.”
Final Words
I don’t know what will happen to me there.
One has this gift and another has that one
Thats because they will have nothing bad to say about us
Priscilla and Aquila went with him.
Are we stronger than he is
Simon himself believed and was baptized. He followed Philip everywhere. He was amazed by the great signs and miracles he saw.
Is it being a leader? Then work hard at it.
You do have choices.
When they saw him, they worshiped him. But some still had their doubts.
The high priest and the whole Council can be witnesses of this themselves.
“I have come to bring fire on the earth. How I wish the fire had already started!
He fell to the ground.
It is for ungodly and sinful people
Then they asked Jesus Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah has to come first
No one ever spoke the way this man does the guards replied
But a married woman is concerned about the matters of this world She wants to know how she can please her husband
It doesnt help anyone
What I’m about to tell you is true. A time is coming for me to give life. In fact, it has already begun. The dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. Those who hear it will live.
A prophet?
They were yours.
I told Abrham  what to do.
And each part of the body belongs to all the other parts.
Give praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ He has blessed us with every spiritual blessing Those blessings come from the heavenly world They belong to us because we belong to Christ
It called out in a loud voice
He saw the strips of linen lying there
Only two or three prophets are supposed to speak Others should decide if what is being said is true
I turned around to see who was speaking to me
You shouldn’t be called ‘teacher.’ You have one Teacher, and he is the Messiah.
That’s because it is what God says about his Son.
We are dressed in rags.
These things are excellent They are for the good of everyone
Suppose people say bad things about you because you believe in Christ
When evening came Jesus disciples went down to the Sea of Galilee
God wants us to live in peace
They did everything that had been written about Jesus. Then they took him down from the cross. They laid him in a tomb.
The Son is the exact likeness of God, who can’t be seen. The Son is first, and he is over all creation.
The jailer told Paul, “The judges have ordered me to set you and Silas free. You can leave now. Go in peace.”
They now dare even more to preach the good news without fear
Peter took Jesus to one side and began to scold him. “Never, Lord!” he said. “This will never happen to you!”
A man unable to walk was being carried to the temple gate called Beautiful.
The elders were dressed in white. They had gold crowns on their heads.
Peter and John were speaking to the people. The priests, the captain of the temple guard, and the Sadducees came up to the apostles.
At once they left their nets and followed him.
He said to them You know that it is against our law for a Jew to enter a Gentile home A Jew shouldnt have any close contact with a Gentile
But as it is, they are holy.
Through him and through faith in him we can approach God. We can come to him freely. We can come without fear.
The Stories of the Mustard Seed and the Yeast
Isnt the potter free to make different kinds of pots out of the same lump of clay Some are for special purposes Others are for ordinary use
Take care!
That was called the Holy Room.
But you cant tell where it comes from or where it is going
That’s why we have not stopped praying for you. We have been praying for you since the day we heard about you. We keep asking God to fill you with the knowledge of what he wants. We pray he will give you the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives.
He is the spirit who is now at work in those who dont obey God
Send the people away. Then they can go to the nearby countryside and villages to buy something to eat.”
“What if someone leads one of these little ones who believe in me to sin? If they do, it would be better if a large millstone were hung around their neck and they were thrown into the sea.
But I see another law working in me It fights against the law of my mind It makes me a prisoner of the law of sin That law controls me
Whoever obeys my word will never die
He was in a hurry to get to Jerusalem If he could he wanted to be there by the day of Pentecost
He corrects everyone he accepts as his son
they all have meaning.
They killed him by nailing him to a cross
And now you have handed him over to his enemies You have murdered him
This baptism has nothing to do with removing dirt from your body
God wants us to live in peace.
Pray for one another so that you might be healed.
So just being circumcised is not enough. Those who are circumcised must also follow the steps of our father Abraham. He had faith before he was circumcised.
Then I was told, “You must prophesy again about many peoples, nations, languages and kings.”
They go in and live there.
That’s why I have often been kept from coming to you.
A man controlled by demons was brought to Jesus. The man was blind and could not speak. Jesus healed him. Then the man could speak and see.
You did not choose me. Instead, I chose you.
But his mother spoke up.
She poured it on Jesus feet and wiped them with her hair
They thought he would suddenly fall dead. They waited for a long time.
Was John’s baptism from heaven? Or did it come from human authority? Tell me!”
He gave us complete faith in what we were preaching
Are we trying to make the Lord jealous
But we have been truly circumcised. We serve God by the power of his Spirit. We boast about what Christ Jesus has done. We don’t put our trust in who we are or what we can do.
In fact, it was Herod himself who had given orders to arrest John. He had him tied up and put in prison. He did this because of Herodias. She was the wife of Herod’s brother Philip. But now Herod was married to her.
Be humble in front of the Lord And he will lift you up
Then Jesus replied, “Didn’t I choose you, the twelve disciples? But one of you is a devil!”
Barabbas had been thrown into prison. He had taken part in a struggle in the city against the authorities. He had also committed murder.
We told you about the time our Lord Jesus Christ came with power But we didnt make up clever stories when we told you about it With our own eyes we saw him in all his majesty
You foolish people of Galatia! Who has put you under an evil spell? When I preached, I clearly showed you that Jesus Christ had been nailed to the cross.
I am the Living One
I have sent them
Wake up sleeper
A man named Lazarus was sick.
The weakness of God is stronger than human strength.
And he allowed it.
Since they have no fruit, they are pulled out of the ground. So they die twice.
And suppose a woman has long hair Doesnt the very nature of things teach you that it is her glory Long hair is given to her as a covering
Arent you like judges who have evil thoughts
We couldn’t change his mind. So we gave up. We said, “May what the Lord wants to happen be done.”
“ ‘I owe  gallons of olive oil,’ he replied.
He will punish those who dont know God He will punish those who dont obey the good news about our Lord Jesus
In my opinion, she is happier if she stays single. And I also think that I am led by the Spirit of God in saying this.
Love is the purpose of my command.
“You also were with Jesus, that Nazarene,” she said.
I respect the elderly.
we will be changed
Here is what the disciples said to him If thats the way it is between a husband and wife it is better not to get married
The angel measured the wall as human beings measure things.
Brothers and sisters I want to remind you of the good news I preached to you You received it and have put your faith in it
who it is?”
and he to us
Erastus is the director of public works here in the city He sends you his greetings Our brother Quartus also greets you
Andrew was Simon Peter’s brother. Andrew was one of the two disciples who heard what John had said. He had also followed Jesus.
In the same way, Israel has not been obeying God. But now they receive mercy because of God’s mercy to you.
Anyone who serves the Lord must not be hard to get along with.
Instead, you should give thanks.
Then the men stepped forward They grabbed Jesus and arrested him
Showing That God Has Chosen You
I have no husband she replied
As they talked about those things Jesus himself came up and walked along with them
But God raised him from the dead.
What Im about to tell you is true Anyone who will not receive Gods kingdom like a little child will never enter it
What did you go out into the desert to see?
We have planted spiritual seed among you Is it too much to ask that we receive from you some things we need
You are God’s special treasure.
I spent a night and a day in the open sea.
More than  men took part in this plan.
I cant decide between the two I long to leave this world and be with Christ That is better by far
You cant do anything without me
Deaf people hear.
He appointed  of them so that they would be with him He would also send them out to preach
Be very patient as you do these things
Suppose someone says I know him But suppose this person does not do what God commands
Jesus and those with him went to Capernaum When the Sabbath day came he went into the synagogue There he began to teach
As they all approached Jerusalem they came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives Jesus sent out two of his disciples
Jesus knew what they were saying. So he said, “Your faith is so small! Why are you talking to each other about having no bread?
I pray that you may become like me except for these chains
I have sinned he said I handed over a man who is not guilty
There will be no more crying or pain.
‘Prepare the way for the Lord.
But on the day Lot left Sodom fire and sulfur rained down from heaven And all the people were destroyed
I say this to shame you. Is it possible that no one among you is wise enough to judge matters between believers?
So the one who plants is not important The one who waters is not important It is God who makes things grow He is the important one
It said, “I have brought glory to my name.
The person who says this is the great enemy of Christ They say no to the Father and the Son
When Jesus stepped on shore he was met by a man from the town The man was controlled by demons
Or who can ever give him advice
And he will be my Son
If we let him keep on doing this, everyone will believe in him. Then the Romans will come.
A young man was following Jesus. The man was wearing nothing but a piece of linen cloth. When the crowd grabbed him,
As his children we will receive all that he has for us We will share what Christ receives But we must share in his sufferings if we want to share in his glory
God gives life to everything
He has become a priest because of his powerful life His life can never be destroyed
Some were killed with stones.
But Paul chose Silas
Instead they longed for a better country They wanted a heavenly one So God is pleased when they call him their God In fact he has prepared a city for them
“The King will reply, ‘What I’m about to tell you is true. Anything you did for one of the least important of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.’
I say to you that many will come from the east and the west. They will take their places at the feast in the kingdom of heaven. They will sit with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
He is worthy to receive honor and glory and praise
Be happy with what you have.
And I know that what he says about me is true.
“You saw the waters the prostitute sits on,” he said.
Tychicus will tell you all the news about me. He is a dear brother. He is a faithful worker. He serves the Lord together with us.
I have a lot to write to you
I know that power has gone out from me
But God was with him
John and the Angel
The one who comes from heaven is above everything
You know very well that we have to go through times of testing
Jesus Speaks a Second Time About His Coming Death
God appointed him to be the high priest just like Melchizedek
This is how it will be on judgment day The angels will come They will separate the people who did what is wrong from those who did what is right
He will not put out a dimly burning flame
We are certain about that We would rather be away from our bodies and at home with the Lord
I hurt the followers of the Way of Jesus. I sent many of them to their death. I arrested men and women. I threw them into prison.
But you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem.”
Only faith in Christ can take it away.
So why do you act as if you still belong to the world
Whoever has ears should listen
rich or poor
This was the second sign that Jesus did after coming from Judea to Galilee.
But suppose a widow has children or grandchildren
It wasn’t because of the one who was hurt either.
Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don’t know where you are going.
Tychicus is a dear brother He is faithful in serving the Lord He will tell you everything about me Then you will know how I am and what I am doing
So you show that you agree with what your people did long ago.
“Lord,” he said, “have mercy on my son. He shakes wildly and suffers a great deal. He often falls into the fire or into the water.
There is one body and one Spirit. You were appointed to one hope when you were chosen.
Philemon, we are sending you this letter. You are our dear friend. You work together with us.
Men did shameful things with other men.
What Im about to tell you is true Before the rooster crows you will say three times that you dont know me
If we have food and clothing, we will be happy with that.
The moon will not shine
If you are willing to accept it, John is the Elijah who was supposed to come.
The wall of the city had tewelve foundations Written on them were the names of the tewelve apostles of the Lamb
The people also did not turn away from their murders, witchcraft, sexual sins and stealing.
After that we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them We will be taken up in the clouds We will meet the Lord in the air And we will be with him forever
They do not allow people to get married. They order them not to eat certain foods. But God created those foods. So people who believe and know the truth should receive them and give thanks for them.
They are blown along by the wind They are like trees in the fall
But a Pharisee named Gamaliel stood up in the Sanhedrin He was a teacher of the law He was honored by all the people He ordered the apostles to be taken outside for a little while
You will cry and be sad
You alone are holy.
Look at the birds of the air. They don’t plant or gather crops. They don’t put away crops in storerooms. But your Father who is in heaven feeds them. Aren’t you worth much more than they are?
We sent our brother Timothy to give you strength and hope in your faith He works together with us in Gods service to spread the good news about Christ
Abraham did not become weak in his faith
Im glad when I am weak but you are strong
He must be gentle
Jesus Clears Out the Temple
One has this gift, and another has that one.
The Holy Spirit had kept them from preaching the word in Asia Minor
They weren’t able to speak.
If he had, he would have had to suffer many times since the world was created. But he has appeared once and for all time. He has come at the time when God’s work is being completed. He has come to do away with sin by offering himself.
“God makes his angels to be like spirits.
On the Sabbath day we went outside the city gate. We walked down to the river. There we expected to find a place of prayer. We sat down and began to speak to the women who had gathered together.
But I am writing what amounts to a new command Its truth was shown in how Jesus lived It is also shown in how you live Thats because the darkness is passing away And the true light is already shining
This is why I remind you to help God’s gift grow, just as a small spark grows into a fire. God put his gift in you when I placed my hands on you.
They had seen everything he had done in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast. That was because they had also been there.
No one comes to the Father except through me
Then you will be holy and without blame in the sight of our God and Father.
they will find plenty of food
I do not fight like a boxer who hits nothing but air.
Prophecy never came simply because a prophet wanted it to. Instead, the Holy Spirit guided the prophets as they spoke. So, although prophets are human, prophecy comes from God.
A man named Ananias and his wife, Sapphira, also sold some land.
Remember how it was in the days of Noah It will be the same when the Son of Man comes
The Samaritan woman said to him You are a Jew
worshiping evil powers
Greet Ampliatus my dear friend in the Lord
God is spirit. His worshipers must worship him in the Spirit and in truth.”
so that God has to pay them back?”
Some who are standing here will not die before they see Gods kingdom
That’s because Christ, our Passover Lamb, has been offered up for us.
For two whole years Paul stayed there in a house he rented
There is more to life than eating.
They will carry you out also.”
Grab Abrham,
He said I am not
His father was a Greek.
burn her with fire
The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle. She was given these wings so that she could fly away.
It speaks to you as a father to his children It says
I want to visit Korea
So encourage one another with the hope you have. Build each other up. In fact, that’s what you are doing.
Come along
“Why do you call me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and still don’t do what I say?
Jesus Changes Water Into Wine
And suppose a poor man in dirty old clothes also comes in
No one should treat him badly
I hired someone today
He will have the same spirit and power that Elijah had
one is ruling
From then on no one dared to ask Jesus any more questions
If your enemies are hungry give them food to eat
Do it now
Three days later Paul called a meeting of the local Jewish leaders. When they came, Paul spoke to them. He said, “My brothers, I have done nothing against our people. I have also done nothing against what our people of long ago practiced. But I was arrested in Jerusalem. I was handed over to the Romans.
no one at all.”
A man named Lazarus was sick. He was from Bethany, the village where Mary and her sister Martha lived.
Jesus said, “Do not hold on to me. I have not yet ascended to the Father. Instead, go to those who believe in me. Tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’ ”
Then they asked Peter to stay with them for a few days.
After three months we headed out to sea.
They also become more sure of their faith in Christ Jesus.
They drank from the spiritual rock that went with them
Jesus Heals a Man Who Had a Skin Disease
Though you are only a human being you judge others But you yourself do the same things So how do you think you will escape when God judges you
You are right when you sentence me
They asked each other, “Who will roll the stone away from the entrance to the tomb?”
I have spoken to you very honestly.
All his followers were scattered.
If I don’t have love, I get nothing at all.
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
He must control himself
This saying is true
I have been crucified with Christ
I live too far away.
Theres a man here that Felix left as a prisoner
Come and see Lord they replied
They asked only one thing. They wanted us to continue to remember poor people. That was what I had wanted to do all along.
How can you say that
The Sadducees say that people will not rise from the dead They dont believe there are angels or spirits either
We are receiving a kingdom that can’t be shaken. So let us be thankful. Then we can worship God in a way that pleases him. Let us worship him with deep respect and wonder.
When you plant something, it isn’t a completely grown plant that you put in the ground. You only plant a seed. Maybe it’s wheat or something else.
Remember your leaders. They spoke God’s word to you.
Abraham’s son by the slave woman was born in the usual way. But his son by the free woman was born because of God’s promise.
But they didnt
He said to him, “You are a child of the devil! You are an enemy of everything that is right! You cheat people.
God has chosen to make known to them the glorious riches of that mystery. He has made it known among the Gentiles.
They are ungodly people
Some time later Paul spoke to Barnabas Lets go back to all the towns where we preached the word of the Lord he said
This went on for two years. So all the Jews and Greeks who lived in Asia Minor heard the word of the Lord.
Through him everyone who believes is set free from every sin. Moses’ law could not make you right in God’s eyes.
It was given authority over every tribe people and nation no matter what language they spoke
Suppose we say that we share life with God but still walk in the darkness. Then we are lying. We are not living out the truth.
Then the rest of the sick people on the island came. They too were healed.
Just as there is one loaf so we who are many are one body We all share the one loaf
It is written
On the next Sabbath day almost the whole city gathered They gathered to hear the word of the Lord
Some time later Jesus went up to Jerusalem for one of the Jewish feasts
The people saw the sign that Jesus did Then they began to say
In the same way Israel has not been obeying God But now they receive mercy because of Gods mercy to you
Then the words spoken by Jeremiah the prophet came true He had said They took the thertiy silver coins That price was set for him by the people of Israel
So were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who worked with Simon.
Then I saw three evil spirits that looked like frogs They came out of the mouths of the dragon the beast and the false prophet
open the scroll
When they circumcise, it is nothing more than a useless cutting of the body.
But we dont even know where this fellow comes from
Young Makuria is a right-wing resident of the city of Tsitsqa ።
Himself, or someone else?”
You used to live as sinners when you followed the ways of this world.
“‘You can be sure that I live,’ says the Lord.
It is written,
I wrote to the church.
God is not a God of disorder. He is a God of peace,
Work to make things right with one another.
Keep watch over yourselves. Keep watch over all the believers. The Holy Spirit has made you leaders over them. Be shepherds of God’s church. He bought it with his own blood.
The members of the church in Babylon send you their greetings. They were chosen together with you. Mark, my son in the faith, also sends you his greetings.
He gave them eyes that could not see
Ill put in once
But they did not understand what he meant by that
If the people of Israel do not continue in their unbelief they will again be joined to the tree
Hes doing his best
We know the God who said, “I am the God who judges people. I will pay them back.”  Scripture also says, “The Lord will judge his people.”
How can they hear about him unless someone preaches to them?
Agree with one another. Don’t be proud. Be willing to be a friend of people who aren’t considered important. Don’t think that you are better than others.
You alone are holy
But if anyone obeys Gods word
Christ is your life When he appears again you also will appear with him in heavens glory
What does he went up mean It can only mean that he also came down to the lower earthly places
They say that the time when people will rise from the dead has already come.
It is written in the Prophets, ‘God will teach all of them.’
My Father has given all things to me
Then Eve was made.
No! In all these things we are more than winners!
Instead, I have called you friends. I have told you everything I learned from my Father.
The people of Israel had faith So they passed through the Red Sea They went through it as if it were dry land The Egyptians tried to do it also But they drowned
Greet the believers who live in the house of Narcissus
When they picked him up from the ground he was dead
Jesus took the man to one side away from the crowd He put his fingers into the mans ears Then he spit and touched the mans tongue
I wish you had been here Then my brother would not have died
Here is a problem that you have to be wise to understand The seven heads are seven hills that the woman sits on
Naggai was the son of Maath.
Perhaps he will forgive you for having such a thought in your heart
All the brothers and sisters here send you greetings
So they left They found a colt out in the street It was tied at a doorway They untied it
Three times I was shipwrecked
Dont be afraid
What if a woman does not cover her head She might as well have her hair cut off
Eat well
The altar was in front of the throne With the incense he offered the prayers of all Gods people
The believers who went with Paul took him to Athens
He said to them It is written that the Lord said My house will be called a house where people can pray  But you are making it a den for robbers
You are asking me to prove that Christ is speaking through me He is not weak in dealing with you He is powerful among you
Suppose someone stays away from what is common.
Peter said Brothers and sisters a long time ago the Holy Spirit spoke through David He spoke about Judas Iscariot What the Scripture said would happen have to come true Judas was the guide for the men who arrested Jesus
Simon the Evil Magician
This is what you have been chosen to do You will receive a blessing by doing this
We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven. We were with him on the sacred mountain.
And that is not all
And now I can see
The angel answered,
At one time we looked at Christ in that way But we dont anymore
Final Appeals
Jesus Will Separate People From One Another
The believers themselves report the kind of welcome you gave us. They tell about how you turned away from statues of gods. And you turned to serve the living and true God.
He made them all go outside He took only the childs father and mother and the disciples who were with him And he went in where the child was
May that be true when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones.
But God found fault with the people He said
One of you says, “I follow Paul.” Another says, “I follow Apollos.” Aren’t you acting like ordinary human beings?
But if you do not forgive the sins of other people, your Father will not forgive your sins.
Right away, the man stood up in front of them. He took his mat and went home praising God.
Leave your country and your people God said Go to the land I will show you Genesis
Remember the story of Moses and the burning bush Even Moses showed that the dead rise The Lord said to him I am the God of Abraham I am the God of Isaac And I am the God of Jacob
But the one who now holds back that power will keep doing it until he is taken out of the way.
Another of his disciples spoke up It was Andrew Simon Peters brother
People who live like this will not receive Gods kingdom
The Samaritans Do Not Welcome Jesus
Is it giving to others Then give freely
The Holy Spirit Gives Life
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ The head of the woman is the man And the head of Christ is God
But the things his brother had done were right
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces. But the stone will crush anyone it falls on.”
But here is the bread that comes down from heaven. A person can eat it and not die.
Its gates will never be shut because there will be no night there
I give them eternal life, and they will never die. No one will steal them out of my hand.
The Lord’s message rang out from you. That was true not only in Macedonia and Achaia.
Several days later Felix came with his wife Drusilla. She was a Jew. Felix sent for Paul and listened to him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
We are working to provide it to the community next።
If I preach because I want to I get a reward
Correct an older man in a way that shows respect Make an appeal to him as if he were your father Treat younger men as if they were your brothers
He planned to bring both Jews and Gentiles back to God as one body He planned to do this through the cross On that cross Christ put to death their hatred toward one another
Salt and Light
Give him glory for ever and ever Amen
There are four men with us who have made a promise to God.
I took the little scroll from the angels hand and ate it
So here is how you should think of us. We serve Christ. We are trusted with the mysteries God has shown us.
I hope everything turns out fine for you.
I will not say much more to you. The prince of this world is coming. He has no power over me.
Husbands,
She must also have been faithful to her husband
So dont destroy them by what you eat Remember that Christ died for them
Publius owned property nearby. He was the chief official on the island. He welcomed us to his home. For three days he took care of us. He treated us with kindness.
Why did you do that?
Despite making requests and pledges to ageing organizations the Esk now could not go into action።
Long ago, God’s word brought the heavens into being. His word separated the earth from the waters. And the waters surrounded it. But these people forget things like that on purpose.
But now you are in the light because of what the Lord has done
Then they spit in his face They hit him with their fists Others slapped him
It was early in the morning All the chief priests and the elders of the people planned how to put Jesus to death
While they were eating, Jesus took bread. He gave thanks and broke it. He handed it to his disciples and said, “Take this and eat it. This is my body.”
It cant
All of this results in wanting what others have
Thats how we can tell the difference between the Spirit of truth and the spirit of lies
I'm OK.
Then he said to Thomas Put your finger here
The government, on the other hand, makes no distinction around the demands of the Amhara people።
In other words, God’s children are not just in the family line of Abraham. Instead, they are the children God promised to him. They are the ones considered to be Abraham’s children.
I Paul am writing this letter I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God our Savior commanded Christ Jesus also commanded it We have put our hope in him
Think about how far you have fallen
“From others,” Peter answered.
Then Jesus said to them Suppose you have a friend You go to him at midnight and say
We who have strong faith should help the weak with their problems. We should not please only ourselves.
The message is like a light shining in a dark place. It will shine until the day Jesus comes.
Where there is no law the law cant be broken
I am afraid for you. I am afraid that somehow I have wasted my efforts on you.
The Lord opened her heart to accept Pauls message
I will show wonders in the heavens above.
Suppose someone claims to love God but hates a brother or sister. Then they are a liar.
Then a man named Jairus came He was a synagogue leader He fell at Jesus feet and begged Jesus to come to his house
Jesus asked him, “What is your name?”
“Do not think that I came to bring peace to the earth. I didn’t come to bring peace. I came to bring a sword.
I will give you words of wisdom None of your enemies will be able to withstand them or prove them wrong
They brought the apostles to the Sanhedrin. The high priest questioned them.
After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed. He said,
“I was in the city of Joppa praying,” he said. “There I had a vision. I saw something that looked like a large sheet. It was being let down from heaven by its four corners. It came down to where I was.
I even had some official letters they had written to their friends in Damascus So I went there to bring these people as prisoners to Jerusalem to be punished
He must be killed and on the third day rise from the dead.”
People Who Cant See the Truth
They found him on the other side of the lake.
Its rider’s name was Death. Following close behind him was Hell.
I have made a fool of me. But you made me do it. You should have praised me. Even though I am nothing, I am in no way less important than the “super-apostles.”
Now the law lays down a rule for the sons of Levi who become priests. They must collect a tenth from the people. They must collect it from the other Israelites. They must do this, even though all of them belong to the family line of Abraham.
Their teeth were like lions teeth
And be sure that you read the letter from Laodicea.
You will be my sons and daughters
And he knows everything.
The commander came up and arrested Paul
Do you share anything in common because of the Holy Spirit
no eye has seen
But Jesus took him by the hand. He lifted the boy to his feet, and the boy stood up.
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is a child of God.
The voices of brides and grooms
But I will stay at Ephesus until the day of Pentecost.
Which ones the man asked
But Jesus took him by the hand He lifted the boy to his feet and the boy stood up
Three times I was beaten with sticks Once they tried to kill me by throwing stones at me Three times I was shipwrecked I spent a night and a day in the open sea
He himself went into the synagogue and talked with the Jews
I keep a female cat.
Lord even the demons obey us when we speak in your name
Solid food is for those who are grown up They have trained themselves to tell the difference between good and evil That shows they have grown up
Who has put you under an evil spell?
Here is what I tell you From now on I wont drink wine with you again until the day I drink it with you in my Fathers kingdom
So the rich man told him to come in He asked him What is this I hear about you Tell me exactly how you have handled what I own You cant be my manager any longer
It comes from the Holy Spirit.
People will come from east and west and north and south. They will take their places at the feast in God’s kingdom.
The most important person among you will be your servant
burned
Annas sent him tied up to Caiaphas the high priest
Tell them to be rich in doing good things.
But Jesus turned
So you no longer let them do anything for their parents.
Paul Sails for Rome
If you dont remain joined to me you are like a branch that is thrown away and dries up
They were afraid it would get stuck on the sandbars of Syrtis. So they lowered the sea anchor and let the ship be driven along.
Instead, one believer goes to court against another. And this happens in front of unbelievers!
We will all stand in God’s courtroom to be judged.
We passed the calmer side of a small island called Cauda We almost lost the lifeboat that was tied to the side of the ship
But, “The one who brags should brag about what the Lord has done.”
Jesus replied, “Not everyone can accept the idea of staying single. Only those who have been helped to live without getting married can accept it.
But that happened so that we would not depend on ourselves but on God He raises the dead to life
Again he asked, “What can I compare God’s kingdom to?
He sent his slaves to those who had been invited to the dinner The slaves told them to come But they refused
“The ten horns you saw are ten kings. They have not yet received a kingdom.
The Pharisees argued with him. “Here you are,” they said, “appearing as your own witness. But your witness does not count.”
The one who obeys Gods commands remains joined to him And he remains joined to them Here is how we know that God lives in us We know it because of the Holy Spirit he gave us
The other guests began to talk about this among themselves
May the Lord give you strength in your hearts Then you will be holy and without blame in the sight of our God and Father May that be true when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones
Hes eating an apple
other mighty people
What they say is that the fifty six year old man, who has been following since the age of sixty, has not been able to take the test, whether he or not ።
You are only a man But you claim to be God
But after I rise from the dead I will go ahead of you into Galilee
May the Lord fill your hearts with Gods love May Christ give you the strength to go on
They replied, “It has taken fourty six years to build this temple. Are you going to raise it up in three days?”
The time will come when people won’t put up with true teaching. Instead, they will try to satisfy their own desires. They will gather a large number of teachers around them. The teachers will say what the people want to hear.
That is what Scripture means where it says Abraham believed God God accepted Abraham because he believed So his faith made him right with GodAnd thats not all God called Abraham his friend
and gentle and having control of oneself.
Doesn’t he say that for us? Yes, it was written for us. Whoever plows and separates the grain hopes to share the harvest. And it is right for them to hope for this.
Still another said I just got married so I cant come
Here is what the angel told me to write
Im like a gate
People chewed on their tongues because they were suffering so much.
The man was holding on to Peter and John All the people were amazed They came running to them at the place called Solomons Porch
So God has put everything under his Son. Everything is under his control. We do not now see everything under his control.
Her mother told her what to say So the girl said to Herod Give me the head of John the Baptist on a big plate
But even angels dont speak evil things against heavenly beings They dont do this when they bring judgment on them from the Lord
Let us come near boldly because of our faith. Our hearts have been sprinkled.
Paul was waiting for Silas and Timothy in Athens He was very upset to see that the city was full of statues of gods
Now the prince of this world will be thrown out.
Circumcision and uncircumcision aren’t worth anything to those who believe in Christ Jesus. The only thing that really counts is faith that shows itself through love.
But there were also false prophets among the people In the same way there will be false teachers among you
May praise and glory
Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world.
three on the west.
“what should we do?”
He gave himself for us. By doing that, he set us free from all evil. He wanted to make us pure. He wanted us to be his very own people. He wanted us to desire to do what is good.
Living by the Holy Spirit’s Power
Anyone who serves me must follow me. And where I am, my servant will also be. My Father will honor the one who serves me.
I am the Root and the Son of David
Be very patient as you do these things.
Each day he spoke with anyone who happened to be in the market place.
But there are sins that do not lead to death.
At that time his voice shook the earth.
Honor people like him
Just as there is one loaf so we who are many are one body
Jesus finished speaking. Then a Pharisee invited him to eat with him. So Jesus went in
So be watchful and control yourselves completely
The people came out of the town and made their way toward Jesus
Are you still going back
I tell you, no one more important than John has ever been born. But the least important person in God’s kingdom is more important than John is.”
It wants what others have.
We stayed at the house of Philip the evangelist He was one of the seven deacons
The Holy Spirit says
When it arrives there, it finds the house swept clean and put in order.
Here are the names of the  apostles.
They will destroy her
But the fruit the Holy Spirit produces is love joy and peace It is being patient kind and good It is being faithful
In those days John the Baptist came and preached in the Desert of Judea.
I know you do
Are you so foolish?
So he entered the house of God. He and his men ate the holy bread. Only priests were allowed to eat it.
Then Jesus told them, “You are going to have the light just a little while longer.
But Jesus remained silent.
whose lawless acts are forgiven.
You will weep and grind your teeth together when you see those who are in Gods kingdom You will see Abraham Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets there But you yourselves will be thrown out
By this time you should be teachers
Then they agreed to take him into the boat
But you will see me
False messiahs and false prophets will appear. They will do signs and miracles. They will try to fool God’s chosen people if possible.
They asked, “Why don’t your disciples obey what the elders teach? Your disciples don’t wash their hands before they eat!”
Once there was a rich man He was dressed in purple cloth and fine linen He lived an easy life every day
But Jesus remained silent. He gave no answer.
God is certainly fair If he werent how could he judge the world
The eyes stand for the seven spirits of God which are sent out into all the earth
It has been given to me, and I can give it to anyone I want to.
This was the second sign that Jesus did after coming from Judea to Galilee.
Pilate knew that the leaders wanted to get their own way He knew this was why they had handed Jesus over to him
When Jesus saw this, he was angry. He said to his disciples, “Let the little children come to me. Don’t keep them away. God’s kingdom belongs to people like them.
One Sabbath day Jesus went to eat in the house of a well-known Pharisee While he was there he was being carefully watched
If we live, we live to honor the Lord. If we die, we die to honor the Lord. So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.
Be glad womanyou who have never had children
Whoever comes to me will never go hungry.
Finally, brothers and sisters, be joyful! Work to make things right with one another. Help one another and agree with one another. Live in peace. And the God who gives love and peace will be with you.
If anyone thinks they are somebody when they are nobody they are fooling themselves
“So keep watch. You do not know the day or the hour that the groom will come.
About this time, King Herod arrested some people who belonged to the church. He planned to make them suffer greatly.
Our dear brother Paul also wrote to you about this. God made him wise to write as he did.
If I pray in another language, my spirit prays.
Philip was seen next at Azotus. From there he traveled all around. He preached the good news in all the towns. Finally he arrived in Caesarea.
The crowds answered This is Jesus He is the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee
Live Without Complaining
That made my joy greater than ever.
Should I take what belongs to Christ and join it to a prostitute? Never!
You must obey the authorities Then you will not be punished You must also obey them because you know it is right
Salvation also belongs to the Lamb.”
Instead, put on the Lord Jesus Christ as if he were your clothing. Don’t think about how to satisfy sinful desires.
She came up behind Jesus and touched the edge of his clothes. Right away her bleeding stopped.
I know that you always hear me.
When the Sanhedrin heard this they covered their ears They yelled at the top of their voices They all rushed at him
But Jesus bent down and started to write on the ground with his finger
He is headed for ruin.
Animals have another.
May praise and glory
Apollos had been taught the way of the Lord.
And anyone who wants to be first must be your slave
When Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, the baby inside her jumped.
Hide us from the face of the one who sits on the throne!
Paul replied. “I am not crazy, most excellent Festus,”
Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues on a Sabbath day.
Another follower said to him, “Lord, first let me go and bury my father.”
So he decided long ago to adopt us He adopted us as his children with all the rights children have He did it because of what Jesus Christ has done It pleased God to do it
He speaks about what I have just told you.
When they arrived in Jerusalem, the church welcomed them. The apostles and elders welcomed them too. Then Paul and Barnabas reported everything God had done through them.
In the part of Scripture I talked about earlier God spoke
It is written
They want you to join them in their wild and wasteful living So they say bad things about you
Meanwhile, Simon Peter was still standing there warming him by the fire. So they asked him, “You aren’t one of Jesus’ disciples too, are you?”
Why do you call me good Jesus answered No one is good except God
I will write the name of my God on them. I will write the name of the city of my God on them.
He did it to put in place the good things themselves
He escaped from the sea. But the female god Justice won’t let him live.”
I live too far away
As you enter the home greet those who live there
We have seen him with our eyes.
There was plenty of grass in that place and they sat down
Pray that I will be kept safe from those in Judea who do not believe. I am taking the offering to Jerusalem. Pray that it will be welcomed by the Lord’s people there.
But you are stubborn. In your heart you are not sorry for your sins. You are storing up anger against yourself. The day of God’s anger is coming. Then his way of judging fairly will be shown.
Brothers and sisters, I don’t consider that I have taken hold of it yet. But here is the one thing I do. I forget what is behind me. I push hard toward what is ahead of me.
What Im about to tell you is true Anyone who accepts someone I send accepts me
Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life
“You don’t know what you’re asking for,” Jesus said. “Can you drink the cup of suffering I drink? Or can you go through the baptism of suffering I must go through?”
Next, I heard what sounded like a voice coming from among the four living creatures.
he said Cut the grain
They might understand with their hearts.
The dragon is that old serpent called the devil, or Satan.
With the people of Israel.
Those who mourn should live as if they did not
“How long do I have to stay with you?
Gods promise of enjoying his rest still stands So be careful that none of you fails to receive it
You look at the bit of sawdust in your friends eye But you pay no attention to the piece of wood in your own eye
They went out And they preached that people should turn away from their sins
David was blessed by God So David asked if he could build a house for the God of Jacob
He will have them take their places at the table And he will come and wait on them
And anyone who judges another believer judges the law
He replied Because you have been given the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven It has not been given to outsiders
Husbands, consider the needs of your wives. They are weaker than you. So treat them with respect. Honor them as those who will share with you the gracious gift of life. Then nothing will stand in the way of your prayers.
There they nailed Jesus to the cross. Two other men were crucified with him. One was on each side of him. Jesus was in the middle.
Then I will never be thirsty. And I won’t have to keep coming here to get water.”
We boarded a ship from Adramyttium. It was about to sail for ports along the coast of Asia Minor.
We live by believing not by seeing
So be watchful, and control yourselves completely.
Follow what you heard from me as the pattern of true teaching Follow it with faith and love because you belong to Christ Jesus
Here is what we take pride in Our sense of what is right and wrong tells us how we have acted
They have done it with the help of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven.
Did Paul die on the cross for you
Right away Jesus made the disciples get into the boat He had them go on ahead of him to the other side of the Sea of Galilee Then he sent the crowd away
In the earthquake, seven thousend people were killed.
God is the God who gives peace. May he make you holy through and through.
The Guards Report to the Chief
“We honor you, king of the Jews!”
I want to talk to him.
He ran.
This stone is very valuable to you who believe But to people who do not believe
The church sent them on their way. They traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria. There they told how the Gentiles had turned to God.
The man was holding on to Peter and John. All the people were amazed. They came running to them at the place called Solomon’s Porch.
If you remain joined to me and I to you you will bear a lot of fruit
Brothers and sisters you know that our visit to you produced results
Now those things happened as examples for us They are supposed to keep us from wanting evil things The people of Israel wanted these evil things
The Jews said to one another, “Where does this man plan to go? Does he think we can’t find him? Will he go where our people live scattered among the Greeks? Will he go there to teach the Greeks?
Jesus Heals a Man Controlled by Demons
The apostles said to the Lord Give us more faith
But Simon replied, “Lord, I am ready to go with you to prison and to death.”
Then he took the children in his arms He placed his hands on them to bless them
No one. Christ Jesus is at the right hand of God and is also praying for us. He died. More than that, he was raised to life.
Do Not Trust in Who You Are or What You Can Do
Some believers had been scattered by the suffering that unbelievers had caused them.
A lot of time had passed. Sailing had already become dangerous.
He isn’t like other people.
If they are thirsty, give them something to drink.
We can they answered
They will come in and go out
Keep us from sinning when we are temptedSave us from the evil one
The readers of the newspaper Xamta Wike
You say, “I have the right to do anything.” But not everything is helpful.
They gave glory to the God of heaven.
Giving Freely to the Lord’s People
Hold on to what you believe.
Moses thought his own people would realize that God was using him to save them. But they didn’t.
In the morning as Jesus and his disciples walked along they saw the fig tree It was dried up all the way down to the roots
He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood His name is the Word of God
What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day?
But the father said to his servants Quick Bring the best robe and put it on him Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet
Get real.
The Pharisees went out. They made plans to trap Jesus with his own words.
The baby was lying in the manger
“You are the salt of the earth. But suppose the salt loses its saltiness. How can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything. It will be thrown out. People will walk all over it.
Is it showing mercy? Then do it cheerfully.
I wrote to the church. But Diotrephes will not welcome us. He loves to be the first in everything.
Again and again I, Paul, wanted to come.
We worship what we do know. Salvation comes from the Jews.
Can a blind person lead another blind person? Won’t they both fall into a pit?
But you do not believe
They began to disagree with what Paul was saying. They said evil things against him.
Once again Jesus went out beside the Sea of Galilee A large crowd came to him He began to teach them
But you have a few people in Sardis who are pure
About three hours later the wife of Ananias came in She didnt know what had happened
Paul and Those Who Pretend to Be Apostles
The high priest enters the Most Holy Room every year He enters with blood that is not his own
Moses parents had faith So they hid him for three months after he was born They saw he was a special child They were not afraid of the kings command
Thomas was with them
As the crowds grew larger Jesus spoke to them
Gifts of the Holy Spirit
They were taught to worship in the temple.
Suppose your whole body is full of light. And suppose no part of it is dark. Then your body will be full of light. It will be just as when a lamp shines its light on you.”
But every spirit that doesnt agree with this does not belong to God
I will speak to these people.
I'll show you my room.
We don’t want others to have it easy at your expense. We want things to be equal.
By doing those things, you will pile up burning coals on their heads.”
A husband should satisfy his wifes needs And a wife should satisfy her husbands needs
So you see that what he believed and what he did were working together. What he did made his faith complete.
Peter and the other apostles replied, “We must obey God instead of people!
But a donkey corrected him for the wrong he did Animals dont speak
Paul Changes His Plans
John the Baptist Is a Witness about Jesus
Dear friends, we have these promises from God. So let us make ourselves pure from everything that makes our bodies and spirits impure. Let us be completely holy. We want to honor God.
I know my tent will soon be removed. Our Lord Jesus Christ has made that clear to me.
They will rule in his kingdom. They have received God’s gift and have been made right with him. This will happen because of what the one man, Jesus Christ, has done.
They follow the Lamb wherever he goes
The hair on his head was white like wool,
There will be no more death
And what is seed scattered on good soil like The people hear the message They accept it They produce a good crop   or even  times more than the farmer planted
Jacob had faith. So he blessed each of Joseph’s sons. He blessed them when he was dying. Because of his faith he worshiped God. Jacob worshiped as he leaned on the top of his walking stick.
In fact, none of the seven left any children. Last of all, the woman died too.
We have nothing, but we own everything.
They put out great fires They escaped being killed by swords Their weakness was turned to strength They became powerful in battle They beat back armies from other countries
The Lord will heal them
They didnt recognize the place But they decided to run the ship onto the beach if they could
Bless those who hurt you. Bless them, and do not curse them.
There will be blood and fire and clouds of smoke.
We comforted you.We really wanted you to live in a way that is worthy of God.
Jesus knew what they were thinking.
Why do the people make useless plans
and don’t speak against one another.
He is not served by human hands He doesnt need anything Instead he himself gives life and breath to all people
He said, ‘That’s why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. The two will become one.’
The believers heard this. Then they raised their voices together in prayer to God. “Lord and King,”
There is only one God. And there is only one go-between for God and human beings. He is the man Christ Jesus.
God is our witness that this is true
Whoever plows and separates the grain hopes to share the harvest And it is right for them to hope for this
So all of us who are grown up in the faith should see things this way. Maybe you think differently about something. But God will make it clear to you.
“Jerusalem! Jerusalem! You kill the prophets and throw stones in order to kill those who are sent to you. Many times I have wanted to gather your people together. I have wanted to be like a hen who gathers her chicks under her wings. And you would not let me!
I live in this area
Jesus Tells What Judas Will Do
Whoever thinks that one day is special does so to honor the Lord
We are writing this to make our joy complete.
While Jesus was in one of the towns, a man came along. He had a skin disease all over his body. When he saw Jesus, the man fell with his face to the ground. He begged him, “Lord, if you are willing to make me ‘clean,’ you can do it.”
Everything written in the past was written to teach us. The Scriptures give us strength to go on. They encourage us and give us hope.
Obey the governors. The emperor sends them to punish those who do wrong. He also sends them to praise those who do right.
Jesus saw her crying. He saw that the Jews who had come along with her were crying also. His spirit became very sad, and he was troubled.
I have learned the secret of being content no matter what happens I am content whether I am well fed or hungry
Everything God created is good. You shouldn’t turn anything down.
Not even angels or demons
As it is I dont understand you
I cant get up and give you anything
They must gently teach those who are against them. Maybe God will give a change of heart to those who are against you. That will lead them to know the truth.
They went around wearing the skins of sheep and goats.
Here is what I tell you. You must be more godly than the Pharisees and the teachers of the law. If you are not, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven.Murder
The word of the Lord spread through the whole area
Sir the woman said you dont have anything to get water with
He almost died for the work of Christ. He put his life in danger to make up for the help you yourselves couldn’t give me.
The time grew near for Jesus to be taken up to heaven So he made up his mind to go to Jerusalem
Here there is no Gentile or Jew. There is no difference between those who are circumcised and those who are not. There is no rude outsider, or even a Scythian. There is no slave or free person. But Christ is everything. And he is in everything.
But the wisdom that comes from heaven is pure. That’s the most important thing about it. And that’s not all. It also loves peace. It thinks about others. It obeys. It is full of mercy and good fruit. It is fair. It doesn’t pretend to be what it is not.
And God the Father will receive the glory.
You know that nothing has kept me from preaching whatever would help you I have taught you in public and from house to house
I had bragged about you to him.
So it used what is good to bring about my death.
So you will receive what God has promised
Most excellent Felix, we gladly admit this everywhere and in every way. And we are very thankful.
They are full of every kind of sin evil and ungodliness They want more than they need They commit murder
What can mere human beings do to me
They grabbed Paul and dragged him out of the temple
It had two horns like a lamb But it spoke like a dragon
Right away Jesus reached out his hand and caught him Your faith is so small he said Why did you doubt me
After this the Lord appointed sevety two others.
His disciples and a large crowd went along with him.
Are they Hebrews So am I
Instead put on the Lord Jesus Christ as if he were your clothing
-He replied, “Because your faith is much too small. What I’m about to tell you is true. If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, it is enough.
“I do not accept praise from human beings.
There are already priests who offer the gifts required by the law
It is the same as having her head shaved.
In the synagogue there was a man controlled by a demon, an evil spirit. He cried out at the top of his voice.
Then Death and Hell were thrown into the lake of fire The lake of fire is the second death
Everyone has heard that you obey God So you have filled me with joy I want you to be wise about what is good And I want you to have nothing to do with what is evil
The law judges you because you have broken it
He was with God in the beginning
Be patient Put up with one another in love
“Be dressed and ready to serve. Keep your lamps burning.
Peter and John left They found things just as Jesus had told them So they prepared the Passover meal
Paul finished speaking Then he got down on his knees with all of them and prayed
Jacob was the father of Joseph Joseph was the husband of Mary And Mary was the mother of Jesus who is called the Messiah
The hired man is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep. So when the hired man sees the wolf coming, he leaves the sheep and runs away. Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it.
Keep on doing these things Give them your complete attention
witchcraft
So I want you to know that no one who is speaking with the help of Gods Spirit says May Jesus be cursed
The younger women must control themselves and be pure
Then they began to look for him among their relatives and friends
Your sins have not been forgiven
He called out in a loud voice to the four angels They had been allowed to harm the land and the sea
Then there came flashes of lightning rumblings thunder and a powerful earthquake There has never been an earthquake as terrible as this One like this hasnt happened while human beings have lived on earth
“Look! I am coming soon! I bring my rewards with me. I will reward each person for what they have done.
I Paul am writing this letter I am a prisoner because of Christ Jesus Our brother Timothy joins me in writing
A second angel followed him He said Fallen Babylon the Great has fallen  The city of Babylon made all the nations drink the strong wine of her terrible sins
He also says
SoCome out from among them
And let us not give up meeting together. Some are in the habit of doing this. Instead, let us encourage one another with words of hope. Let us do this even more as you see Christ’s return approaching.
God called this covenant new So he has done away with the first one And what is out of date and has been done away with will soon disappear
“I will praise you among the Gentiles.
But there are some other Jews who should be here in front of you. They are from Asia Minor.
What should I say to you?
The Letter to the Church in Smyrna
How did you meet Abrham ?
When Jesus had finished speaking he left and hid from them
Those who were tending the pigs ran off They went into the town and reported all this They told the people what had happened to the men who had been controlled by demons
He took the believers with him. Each day he talked with people in the lecture hall of Tyrannus.
Then Jesus told them to give her something to eat
You belong to your father the devil
Slaves, obey your masters out of deep respect for God. Obey not only those who are good and kind. Obey also those who are not kind.
Then John told them, “I saw the Holy Spirit come down from heaven like a dove. The Spirit remained on Jesus.
Those who come to God must believe that he exists.
This is the revelation from Jesus Christ God gave it to him to show those who serve God what will happen soon
I can barely see you.
Moses said, ‘The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me. He will be one of your own people.
But God loves us deeply. He is full of mercy.
The High Priest Questions Jesus
Then Levi gave a huge banquet for Jesus at his house. A large crowd of tax collectors and others were eating with them.
So this is what we preach whether I or the other apostles who preached to you And that is what you believed
Brothers and sisters, I want you to know about the gifts of the Holy Spirit.
The crowd didn’t know what was going on. Some were shouting one thing and some another.
They said to the woman, “We no longer believe just because of what you said. We have now heard for ourselves. We know that this man really is the Savior of the world.”
Suppose I go on living in my body. Then I will be able to carry on my work.
If the law could wouldnt the sacrifices have stopped being offered
First let the children eat all they want he told her It is not right to take the childrens bread and throw it to the dogs
“No one lights a lamp and hides it. No one puts it under a bowl. Instead, they put a lamp on its stand. Then those who come in can see the light.
Follow my example I try to please everyone in every way Im not looking out for what is good for me
Israels sin brought riches to the world
His disciples later remembered what he had said That was after he had been raised from the dead
So they speak from the worlds point of view
A person’s body without their spirit is dead. In the same way, faith without good deeds is dead.
But Saul grew more and more powerful
PETER 
Jesus left Nazareth and went to live in the city of Capernaum. It was by the lake in the area of Zebulun and Naphtali.
God said Honor your father and mother  He also said Anyone who asks for bad things to happen to their father or mother must be put to death
‘I am coming soon. Hold on to what you have. Then no one will take away your crown.
Early on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb. It was still dark. She saw that the stone had been moved away from the entrance.
Her owners realized that their hope of making money was gone. So they grabbed Paul and Silas. They dragged them into the market place to face the authorities.
No here is what the prophet Joel meant
I’m glad when I am weak but you are strong.
You have seen and heard what this fellow Paul is doing. He has talked to large numbers of people here in Ephesus. Almost everywhere in Asia Minor he has led people away from our gods. He says that the gods made by human hands are not gods at all.
Simeon was the son of Judah.
The tongue is the most evil part of the body.
Im expecting him to come back along with the others
When Jesus saw that they had faith, he spoke to the man. He said, “Friend, your sins are forgiven.”
People who have done what is evil will rise and be found guilty.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem I went there to get to know Peter
care for their body
His love for you is even greater when he remembers that you all obeyed his teaching You received him with fear and trembling
You think you know so much more than the people you teach. You think you’re helping blind people. You think you are a light for those in the dark.
So Joseph and Mary took Jesus to Jerusalem.
He has saved us from the kingdom of darkness.
And if I asked you you would not answer
I dont like school
Do you owe taxes Then pay them
“They have taken my Lord away,” she said. “I don’t know where they have put him.”
I have obeyed all those commandments the young man said What else do I need to do
God had said to him Your family line will continue through Isaac  Even so Abraham was going to offer him up
As a result they were unable to find medical services that would allow them to go to a health station when various diseases occurred።
Follow me
If they have a question about something they should ask their own husbands at home
On the third day they even threw the ships tools and supplies overboard with their own hands
And those who know God listen to us
God accepted Abraham because he believed.
The main street of the city was made out of gold. It was gold as pure as glass that people can see through clearly.
So one man’s sin brought guilt to all people. In the same way, one right act made people right with God. That one right act gave life to all people.
If it were those who serve me would fight
They rushed out into the crowd
Herod was king of Judea. During the time he was ruling, there was a priest named Zechariah. He belonged to a group of priests named after Abijah.
What should we say then? Is God unfair? Not at all!
But the heavenly things themselves had to be made pure with better sacrifices.
I am a witness that this is Gods Chosen One
and he obeyed them
They want to take you away from us.
How old is your son
We didn’t give in to them for a moment. We did this so that the truth of the good news would be kept safe for you.
On the Sabbath day he went into the synagogue as he usually did
He went from house to house. He dragged away men and women and put them in prison.
Thomas was one of the twelve disciples. He was also called Didymus. He was not with the other disciples when Jesus came.
Abraham died.
So here is what we can always be certain about. As long as we are at home in our bodies, we are away from the Lord.
But the one whom God raised from the dead did not rot away.
Some people claim they are Jews but are not.
What if a person could become right with God by obeying the law Then Christ died for nothing
The Most Important Commandment
“You unbelieving and evil people!” Jesus replied. “How long do I have to stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you? Bring the boy here to me.”
He will be a joy and delight to you.
Her body was washed and placed in a room upstairs
Suppose an unbeliever invites you to a meal and you want to go Then eat anything that is put in front of you Dont ask if its right or wrong
Beauty like this doesn’t fade away. God places great value on it.
Aristarchus is in prison with me. He sends you his greetings. So does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas. You have been given directions about him. If he comes to you, welcome him.
He answered, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your strength and with all your mind.’  And, ‘Love your neighbor as you love yourself.’
Abraham was looking forward to the city that has foundations He was waiting for the city that God planned and built
I have a lot of cats
Then I looked and heard the voice of millions and millions of angels
That will make Israel jealous of them.
Abraham’s son by the slave woman was born in the usual way.
I saw the seven angels who stand in front of God
Are you greater than our father Abraham? He died. So did the prophets. Who do you think you are?”
The rest of the dead did not come to life until the one thoused years were ended
It is the same with us. When we were children, we were slaves to the basic spiritual powers of the world.
As you know very well, it has turned out that way.
I will make a new covenant
The mans face fell He went away sad because he was very rich
Bless those who hurt you Bless them and do not curse them
But my words will never pass away.
And anyone making a promise in the name of heaven makes a promise in the name of Gods throne and the one who sits on it
I am sure you have heard that God appointed me to share his grace with you.
So who was I to think that I could stand in God’s way?”
Who can ever know what is in the Lords mind
they say evil things against heavenly beings
So give the order to make the tomb secure until the third day. If you don’t, his disciples might come and steal the body. Then they will tell the people that Jesus has been raised from the dead. This last lie will be worse than the first.”
I prefer cats to dogs.
So the soldiers took charge of Jesus.
“Lord, in the beginning you made the earth secure. You placed it on its foundations.
He replied, “Go and tell that fox, ‘I will keep on driving out demons. I will keep on healing people today and tomorrow. And on the third day I will reach my goal.’
It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready It will even be good if he comes in the middle of the night or toward morning
Christ Is God’s Power and Wisdom
You cant drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons too
You have put everything under their control.”
But the seed on good soil stands for those with an honest and good heart.
Jesus answered You say that I am a king
They said Isnt this Jesus the son of Joseph
Then Jesus turned around and saw them following He asked What do you want
Her newsletter is about  days of news and preparation, as well as give us the feedback that the use of words should make።
Don’t be like Cain. He belonged to the evil one. He murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because the things Cain had done were wrong. But the things his brother had done were right.
But this son of yours wasted your money with some prostitutes. Now he comes home. And for him you kill the fattest calf!’
they should do it with the strength God provides.
Dont lie to one another You have gotten rid of your old way of life and its habits
you made the heavens, the earth and the sea. You made everything in them.
John the Baptist’s Head Is Cut Off
Can a demon open the eyes of someone who is blind?”
After Jesus drank he said It is finished
The four angels had been ready for this very hour and day and month and year. They were set free to kill a third of all people.
The Greatest King of All and the Most Powerful Lord of All
You gain a lot when you live a godly life But you must be happy with what you have
But if you can’t control yourselves, you should get married.
Christ Sets Us Free
We can now be sure that he will give us everything he promised us
It also forced everyone to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead People great or small rich or poor free or slave had to receive the mark
The message we preach is not about ourselves. Our message is about Jesus Christ. We say that he is Lord. And we say that we serve you because of Jesus.
The nations will walk by the light of the city. The kings of the world will bring their glory into it.
But I tell you this On judgment day it will be easier for Sodom than for you
They were written down to warn us. That’s because we are living at the time when God’s work is being completed.
One day Jesus was eating with them He gave them a command Do not leave Jerusalem he said Wait for the gift my Father promised You have heard me talk about it
My son Timothy I am giving you this command
So Zacchaeus came down at once and welcomed him gladly
What does “he went up” mean? It can only mean that he also came down to the lower, earthly places.
God sent them to Babylon and even farther.
consider the needs of your wives
Here is what we announce to everyone about the Word of life.
Then Peter said, “Look at us!”
Speaking in languages that had not been known before will end
After leaving them, he went up on a mountainside to pray.
A woman there had been disabled by an evil spirit for  years She was bent over and could not stand up straight
How can you possibly not understand? I wasn’t talking to you about bread. But watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
The promise was made even though at that time Abraham had no child
I would like to learn just one thing from you. Did you receive the Holy Spirit by obeying the law? Or did you receive the Spirit by believing what you heard?
Follow the way of love You should also want the gifts the Holy Spirit gives Most of all you should want the gift of prophecy
He had to carry his own cross. He went out to a place called the Skull.
They saw that only one boat had been there
‘I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.’
Listen Here is the meaning of the story of the farmer
Some in the crowd shouted one thing, some another.
Worship God!”
I can talk for a bit.
But anyone who speaks evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven
But the Pharisees and the authorities on the law did not accept for themselves God’s purpose. So they had not been baptized by John.
They will destroy her
Simon Peter answered, “You are the Messiah. You are the Son of the living God.”
Goodbye
Agree with one another. Don’t be proud.
Judas Iscariot was one of the  disciples. He went to the chief priests to hand Jesus over to them.
What I know now is not complete
If someone there works to bring peace your blessing of peace will rest on them
The Holy Spirit spoke through David himself. David said,
They tell about how you are waiting for his Son to come from heaven God raised him from the dead He is Jesus He saves us from Gods anger and his anger is sure to come
I’m expecting him to come back along with the others.
So they will quickly destroy themselves.
But Paul chose Silas.
He was telling them that Jesus had risen from the dead
But now look I am alive for ever and ever
Love is the purpose of my command
We have no homes.
Sing to God with thanks in your hearts.
So they called that field Akeldama In their language
The kings of the world will bring their glory into it
I know what it’s like not to have what I need. I also know what it’s like to have more than I need.
I’m ready to be put in prison. In fact, I’m ready to die in Jerusalem for the Lord Jesus.”
But then the chosen time came God sent his Son
No one will hear his voice in the streets.
Then Jesus cried out, “Whoever believes in me does not believe in me only. They also believe in the one who sent me.
People were bringing little children to Jesus. They wanted him to place his hands on them to bless them. But the disciples told them to stop.
You should come back to your senses and stop sinning Some of you dont know anything about God I say this to make you ashamed
But I will come very soon, if that’s what the Lord wants.
Give her any help she may need from you.
Should we keep on sinning so that God’s grace can increase?
The way he deals with people is more than we can know!
When you teach, be honest and serious.
Herod realized that the Wise Men had tricked him. So he became very angry. He gave orders about Bethlehem and the area around it. He ordered all the boys two years old and under to be killed. This agreed with the time when the Wise Men had seen the star.
But I was lowered in a basket from a window in the wall. So I escaped from the governor.
anything else in all creation can separate us Nothing at all can ever separate us from Gods love Thats because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done
The Story of the Farmer
They realized that these men had been with Jesus
So God in his wisdom said, ‘I will send prophets and apostles to them. They will kill some. And they will try to hurt others.’
There were shepherds living out in the fields nearby It was night and they were taking care of their sheep
Lord God who rules over all
We belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. So we strongly command people like that to settle down. They have to earn the food they eat.
Philip was from the town of Bethsaida So were Andrew and Peter
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.
But Paul didn’t think it was wise to take him. Mark had deserted them in Pamphylia. He hadn’t continued with them in their work.
News about Jesus spread quickly all over Galilee
His eyes were like a blazing fire
When they had spoken, I was getting ready to write.
So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat They let it drift away
Then I preached in Jerusalem and in all Judea And then I preached to the Gentiles I told them to turn away from their sins to God
So everything I say is just what the Father has told me to say
They spoke about the grace that was going to come to you
Where are the great thinkers of our time
And there were many in Israel who had skin diseases in the days of Elisha the prophet
The Holy Spirit will teach you at that time what you should say
Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them. They will be priests of God and of Christ. They will rule with him for one thoused years.
The heat of the desert will not harm them.
What he speaks is faithful and true
Jesus answered, “Aren’t there twelve hours of daylight?
In the church at Antioch there were prophets and teachers. Among them were Barnabas, Simeon, and Lucius from Cyrene. Simeon was also called Niger. Another was Manaen. He had been brought up with Herod, the ruler of Galilee. Saul was among them too.
You do well in everything else. You do well in faith and in speaking. You do well in knowledge and in complete commitment. And you do well in the love we have helped to start in you. So make sure that you also do well in the grace of giving to others.
Suppose a person claims to have faith but doesn’t act on their faith.
I dont want you to have anything to worry about A single man is concerned about the Lords matters He wants to know how he can please the Lord
They shouted, “Friends, why are you doing this? We are only human, just like you. We are bringing you good news. Turn away from these worthless things. Turn to the living God. He is the one who made the heavens and the earth and the sea. He made everything in them.
He must not get drunk. He must not push people around. He must be gentle. He must not be a person who likes to argue. He must not love money.
I know that your spiritual life is going well.
You are doing what you have heard from your father.”
think everything it says is important.
We are full of joy in God because of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of him, God has brought us back to himself.
A commander was standing there as they stretched Paul out to be whipped
But I would rather have you prophesy
People were bringing little children to Jesus They wanted him to place his hands on them to bless them But the disciples told them to stop
Jesus knew what they were thinking
At one time you were far away from God But now you belong to Christ Jesus He spilled his blood for you This has brought you near to God
It is made for those who break the law. It is for those who refuse to obey.
Don't move.
He told him, “We have found the Messiah.” Messiah means Christ.
Because you belong to Christ, you have been made complete. He is the ruler over every power and authority.
Those who have been given a trust must prove that they are faithful.
So he sat down by the well.
Brothers and sisters, we don’t have to write to you about times and dates.
They brought them to the judges These men are Jews her owners said They are making trouble in our city
Be afraid of the one who has the authority to throw you into hell after you have been killed
It says Abraham believed God
Feel this.
Here is what love is It is not that we loved God It is that he loved us and sent his Son to give his life to pay for our sins
You have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not.
They did this so that after death they would be raised to an even better life.
So you will receive what God has promised.
Who died
“Do that,
The whole city was stirred up. People came running from all directions. They grabbed Paul and dragged him out of the temple. Right away the temple gates were shut.
Then he bowed his head and died
King David says the same thing. He tells us how blessed people are when God makes them right with himself. They are blessed because they don’t have to do anything in return. David says,
Peter said Here is what is written in the Book of Psalms It says
Then he told me,
You will always have poor people with you You can help them any time you want to But you will not always have me
You have seen the Blameless One. You have heard words from his mouth.
My food is to finish his work.
It is not good for the soil And it is not good for the trash pile It will be thrown out
“Then the master called the first servant in. ‘You evil servant,’ he said. ‘I forgave all that you owed me because you begged me to.
He appeared as a man
The one who searches will find.
But Jesus knew that they planned to come and force him to be their king. So he went away again to a mountain by himself.
God’s power has given us everything we need to lead a godly life. All of this has come to us because we know the God who chose us. He chose us because of his own glory and goodness.
You will be judged in the same way you judge others You will be measured in the same way you measure others
Brothers and sisters, what I mean is that the time is short. From now on, those who have a husband or wife should live as if they did not.
Here is what I mean. One of you says, “I follow Paul.”
And how about ships They are very big They are driven along by strong winds But they are steered by a very small rudder
On that cross Christ put to death their hatred toward one another
But when what is complete comes, the things that are not complete will pass away.
You circumcise a boy on the Sabbath day. You think that if you do, you won’t break the law of Moses.
We moved along slowly for many days
No one will attack you and harm you
They must be able to teach.
Christ Jesus set us free so that the blessing given to Abraham would come to the Gentiles through Christ He did it so that we might receive the promise of the Holy Spirit
Most of all, everyone should take care of their own family. If they don’t, they have left the faith.
I have told you this so that you will have the same joy that I have. I also want your joy to be complete.
A family that is divided against itself will fall
Large crowds came to him They brought blind people and those who could not walk They also brought disabled people those who could not speak and many others They laid them at his feet and he healed them
now I can see!”
We didnt eat anyones food without paying for it In fact it was just the opposite We worked night and day We worked very hard so that we wouldnt cause any expense to any of you
But the Spirit of Jesus would not let them
Let us not become proud Let us not make each other angry Let us not want what belongs to others
“Suppose someone has a claim against you and is taking you to court. Settle the matter quickly. Do this while you are still together on the way. If you don’t, you may be handed over to the judge. The judge may hand you over to the officer to be thrown into prison.
But many who are first will be last. And many who are last will be first.
But we have the mind of Christ
Only he has seen the Father.
My dear brothers and
And I will keep on doing what Im doing That will stop those who claim they have things to brag about
First of all the Jews have been given the very words of God
Some of the natural branches have been broken off You are a wild olive branch But you have been joined to the tree with the other branches Now you enjoy the life-giving sap of the olive tree root
Lord Dont hold this sin against them
All you need to say is simply Yes or No Anything more than this comes from the evil oneBe Kind to Others
Jason has welcomed them into his house. They are all disobeying Caesar’s commands. They say there is another king. He is called Jesus.”
But let us go to him
The priests who are Levites worship at the holy tent But we have an altar that they have no right to eat from
By his power he will change our earthly bodies. They will become like his glorious body.
If it bears fruit next year, fine! If not, then cut it down.’ ”
Some have special purposes. Others have common purposes.
Use the truth to make them holy.
One person considers one day to be more holy than another Another person thinks all days are the same Each of them should be absolutely sure in their own mind
But suppose you receive a beating for doing wrong, and you put up with it
The disciple Jesus loved was next to him at the table
‘Come out of her, my people.’
-Gaius sends you his greetings He has welcomed me and the whole church here into his house
“So write down what you have seen.
You know what has happened all through the area of Judea. It started in Galilee after John preached about baptism.
Why dont you do it
May the Lord be with all of you?
We also pray that you will receive glory through what he has done.
Thats why a man will leave his father and mother
May the Lord who gives peace gives you peace at all times and in every way.
Those who passed by shouted at Jesus and made fun of him. They shook their heads and said, “So you are going to destroy the temple and build it again in three days?
He answered, “Evil and unfaithful people ask for a sign! But none will be given except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
They didn’t know that God’s power makes people right with himself. They tried to get right with God in their own way. They didn’t do it in God’s way.
But in fact Jesus was not baptizing. His disciples were.
John, Alexander and other people in the high priest’s family.
Timothy will visit you Make sure he has nothing to worry about while he is with you He is doing the work of the Lord just as I am
On that day you will realize that I am in my Father. You will know that you are in me, and I am in you.
The great city split into three parts The cities of the nations crumbled and fell God remembered Babylon the Great He gave Babylon the cup filled with the wine of his terrible anger
Even those who are circumcised dont obey the law But they want you to be circumcised Then they can brag about what has been done to your body
Love is patient.
He is working right up to this day. I am working too.”
The number of men who had eaten was five thousend
When a person is tempted, they shouldn’t say, “God is tempting me.” God can’t be tempted by evil. And he doesn’t tempt anyone.
So they asked him What sign will you give us
The next day Agrippa and Bernice arrived. They were treated like very important people. They entered the courtroom. The most important military officers and the leading men of the city came with them. When Festus gave the command, Paul was brought in.
After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken.
As the men were leaving Jesus, Peter spoke up.
Encourage people and give them hope
Hearing this Jesus said to Jairus
My body is real food
Try hard
Moses gave you circumcision and so you circumcise a child on the Sabbath day
How can someone be born when they are old Nicodemus asked
Children of God are not born because of human choice or because a husband wants them to be born.
Right away Zechariah could speak again.
But suppose we walk in the light just as he is in the light Then we share life with one another And the blood of Jesus his Son makes us pure from all sin
They also offered a sacrifice.
I pray that what we share by believing will help you understand even more. Then you will completely understand every good thing we share by believing in Christ.
In fact here is what it means to love God We love him by obeying his commands And his commands are not hard to obey
“ ‘If you can’?” said Jesus. “Everything is possible for the one who believes.”
“You were like sheep wandering away.”
Jesus replied What Im about to tell you is true
Also demons came out of many people The demons shouted You are the Son of God
How terrible for you
I wasnt stirring up a crowd in the synagogues or anywhere else in the city
So do the disciples of the Pharisees
Johns disciples told him about all these things
I’m the only one left.
People give birth to people
Then he broke it and began to eat.
At dawn, Jesus went out to a place where he could be by himself. The people went to look for him. When they found him, they tried to keep him from leaving them.
Everyone hid in caves and among the rocks of the mountains. This included the kings of the earth, the princes and the generals. It included rich people and powerful people. It also included everyone else, both slaves and people who were free.
When he said this they tried to arrest him
we have spoken freely to you
So they did not break his legs
I said, ‘Their hearts are always going astray.
The Law was written in letters on stone. Even though it was a way of serving God, it led to death. But even that way of serving God came with glory.
But the person who prophesies speaks to people That person prophesies to make people stronger to give them hope and to comfort them
We hope for what we dont have yet So we are patient as we wait for it
Am I not an apostle?
Jesus Chooses Levi and Eats With Sinners
“The other servant fell on his knees. ‘Give me time,’ he begged him. ‘I’ll pay it back.’
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God planned.
In a loud voice he said
A person may build on it using gold, silver, jewels, wood, hay or straw.
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Thyatira.
“The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat,” he said.
He gave himself to pay for the sins of all people We have been told this message at just the right time
All of them ate and were satisfied. After that, the disciples picked up seven baskets of leftover pieces.
“Have I said something wrong?” Jesus replied. “If I have, then tell everyone what it was. But if I spoke the truth, why did you hit me?”
And his word does not live in you. That’s because you do not believe the one he sent.
Those who were not told about him will understand
It is written,
“These are the true words of God.”
Have nothing to do with these people
Have you completely forgotten this word of hope?
Those he has appointed he has made right with himself
But we do see Jesus already given a crown of glory and honor. He was made lower than the angels for a little while. He suffered death. By the grace of God, he tasted death for everyone. That is why he was given his crown.
All the brothers and sisters here send you greetings.
I am telling you what I saw when I was with my Father
Again it says
He began by saying to them Today this passage of Scripture is coming true as you listen
In ourselves we are not able to claim anything for ourselves The power to do what we do comes from God
Many are not circumcised physically
Give to everyone what you owe them. Do you owe taxes? Then pay them. Do you owe anything else to the government? Then pay it. Do you owe respect? Then give it. Do you owe honor? Then show it.
But you know that Christ came to take our sins away.
Do you want to become his disciples too?”
Jacob had tewelve sons They became the founders of the tewelve tribes of Israel
I will also write my new name on them.
fighting,
I have given them the glory you gave me I did this so they would be one just as we are one
I speak the truth in Christ
How terrible for you Bethsaida
They will be destroyed forever.
‘But I have a few things against you. Some of your people follow the teaching of Balaam. He taught Balak to lead the people of Israel into sin. So they ate food that had been offered to statues of gods. And they committed sexual sins.
They will want to die
There were also AndrewPhilipBartholomewMatthewThomasand James son of AlphaeusAnd there were Thaddaeusand Simon the Zealot
You are a building that is built on the apostles and prophets.
But Jesus knew their evil plans He said You pretenders Why are you trying to trap me
So he had to be made like people fully human in every way
They dragged him out of the city. They began to throw stones at him to kill him.
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it. But whoever loses their life for me will save it.
There has never been an earthquake as terrible as this.
“We are witnesses of everything he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They killed him by nailing him to a cross.
He learned that Paul was from Cilicia.
He bent over and looked in at the strips of linen lying there. But he did not go in.
It is good that Gods grace makes our hearts strong
So dont be ashamed of the message about our Lord
Still another person said I will follow you Lord
Scripture says
The heavens will disappear with a roar
He is God over all May he always be praised
To godliness add kindness for one another
Let we not become tired of doing well At the right time we will gather a crop if we dont give up
Abrham swims.
The God who has chosen you is faithful He will do all these things
Then God would forgive them
Only if they keep on believing,
But I think it’s necessary to send Epaphroditus back to you.
“Or suppose a king is about to go to war aainst another king. And suppose he has ten thousennd men, while the other has twenty thousend coming against him. Won’t he first sit down and think about whether he can win?
we are certainly not sorry about that!
The leaves of the tree bring healing to the nations.
He told them all to remain true to the Lord with all their hearts.
The man got up and took his mat. Then he walked away while everyone watched. All the people were amazed. They praised God and said, “We have never seen anything like this!”
So he and his whole family became believers
Then they came to Jesus. They saw the man who had been controlled by many demons. He was sitting there. He was now dressed and thinking clearly. All this made the people afraid.
He answered, “Yes, Lord. You know that I love you.”
And Isaiah says
If anyone does not love the Lord, let a curse be on that person! Come, Lord!
But the people there did not welcome Jesus. That was because he was heading for Jerusalem.
Dont pretend to be something you are not
And the three of them agree.
I passed on to you what I received from the Lord.
He picked up his mat and walked.
Through Christ we both come to the Father by the power of one Holy Spirit
But you have received the Holy Spirit from God. He continues to live in you.
Instead you are filled with sadness because I have said these things
Jesus Dies
It always hopes
By saying this, it cannot stop being part of the body.
Some of the teachers of the law replied, “You have spoken well, teacher!”
Levi got up left everything and followed him
Jesus answered, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
He said Thats why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife The two will become one
I know what you are doing I know you arent cold or hot I wish you were either one or the other
I will explain to you the mystery of the woman And I will explain the mystery of the beast she rides on The beast is the one who has the seven heads and ten horns
But Jesus lives forever. So he always holds the office of priest.
Her son is a genius
“What do you want me to do for you?” Jesus asked him.
I hope I can come to you soon But now I am writing these instructions to you
Shouldnt you have had mercy on the other servant just as I had mercy on you
The mark is the name of the beast or the number of its name.
It is no trouble for me to write about some important matters to you again
You always show me the path that leads to life.
Then ‘a new king came to power in Egypt. Joseph didn’t mean anything to him.’
Scripture says, “Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.”
How terrible for you who are well fed now
Then they began to attack him with their words. “You are this fellow’s disciple!” they said. “We are disciples of Moses!
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus said to them. “Has anyone left home or wife or husband or brothers or sisters or parents or children for God’s kingdom?
You know how love.
He then breathed on them. He said, “Receive the Holy Spirit.
Many people refuse to obey God. All they do is talk about things that mean nothing.
That’s because everyone who is a child of God has won the battle over the world.
The thoughts of a person ruled by sin bring death. But the mind ruled by the Spirit brings life and peace.
But many people who saw them leaving recognized them. They ran from all the towns and got there ahead of them.
A large crowd from the town was with her.
Stay away from opposing ideas that are falsely called knowledge
Others said, “He is the Messiah.”
They even enjoyed what they had made with their own hands.
Thats because Adam was made first
The Coming Birth of John the Baptist
Never give up.
I myself belong to Israel. I am one of Abraham’s children. I am from the tribe of Benjamin.
Dont I have the right to do what I want with my own money Do you feel cheated because I gave so freely to the others
Don’t you know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit?
When he arrived and saw what the grace of God had done he was glad
Times are hard for you right now So I think its good for a man to stay as he is
Let the Jews who are here tell you what crime I am guilty of. After all, I was put on trial by the Sanhedrin.
We boast about what Christ Jesus has done We dont put our trust in who we are or what we can do
So they took him and threw him out of the vineyard Then they killed him
I pray that everything else may go well with you
Will he go where our people live scattered among the Greeks Will he go there to teach the Greeks
Birds fly
But everyone who hears my words and does not put them into practice is like a foolish man He builds his house on sand
That time is going to come to the whole world. It will test those who live on the earth.
Then the high priest stood up. He asked Jesus, “Aren’t you going to answer? What are these charges that these men are bringing against you?”
But one who is more powerful than I am will come
But their hearts are far away from me.
He was given power to make people kill each other.
He kept on talking until midnight because he planned to leave the next day.
Christ has set us free to enjoy our freedom So remain strong in the faith Dont let the chains of slavery hold you again
Im a social worker
“Do not seal up the words of the prophecy in this book. These things are about to happen.
He wrapped a towel around his waist.
Now may God supply you with everything good. Then you can do what he wants. May he do in us what is pleasing to him? We can do it only with the help of Jesus Christ. Give him glory for ever and ever. Amen.
The people of the city did not agree with one another. Some were on the side of the Jews. Others were on the side of the apostles.
The nations were angry,
The Lord himself will come down from heaven
It is no trouble for me to write about some important matters to you again.
Jesus answered Gods work is to believe in the one he has sent
People who are ungodly run after all those things Your Father who is in heaven knows that you need them
The people of Israel had faith. So they passed through the Red Sea.
Then the disciples understood that Jesus was not telling them to watch out for the yeast used in bread. He was warning them against what the Pharisees and Sadducees taught.
The people saw the sign that Jesus did. Then they began to say, “This must be the Prophet who is supposed to come into the world.”
”He said, “They are the ones who have come out of the time of terrible suffering.
Instead we will speak the truth in love So we will grow up in every way to become the body of Christ Christ is the head of the body
God’s Wonderful Plan for the Gentiles
John’s Vision of Christ
What do you think
This kind of person can’t make up their mind. They can never decide what to do.
Then another sign appeared in heaven.
After his father died God sent Abraham to this land where you are now living
Now I want to say something about virgins. I have no direct command from the Lord.
The elders were dressed in white They had gold crowns on their heads
And I won’t ever do it.
I will always be secure
He told them You also go and work in my vineyard Ill pay you what is right
Stop judging only by what you see Judge in the right way
The angel measured the city with the rod
All of Abrahams children will certainly receive the promise
It was Preparation Day. The Sabbath day was about to begin.
because I am holy.”
God did not spare the world’s ungodly people long ago. He brought the flood on them. But Noah preached about the right way to live. God kept him safe. He also saved seven others.
That is why it has been called the Field of Blood to this day
He said Throw your net on the right side of the boat
But they will have to explain their actions to God He is ready to judge those who are alive and those who are dead
His ears are open to their prayers.
That law says he must die He claimed to be the Son of God
Wives follow the lead of your own husbands as you follow the Lord
The priests, who are Levites, worship at the holy tent. But we have an altar that they have no right to eat from.
I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written
You think that the law gives you all knowledge and truth
It is for those who aren’t holy and who don’t believe.
a messenger is not more important than the one who sends him
They haven’t said evil things against our female god. But you have brought them here anyhow.
And the waters surrounded it. But these people forget things like that on purpose.
The Huge Crowd Wearing White Robes
You struggle against sin But you have not yet fought to the point of spilling your blood
Even our father Abraham gave him a tenth of what he had captured.
When the judges heard that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens, they became afraid.
Satan Is Judged
David saw what was coming. So he spoke about the Messiah rising from the dead. He said that the Messiah would not be left in the place of the dead. His body wouldn’t rot in the ground.
But how terrible it will be for the earth and the sea
Im used to it by now
So when the crowd gathered Pilate asked them Which one do you want me to set free Jesus Barabbas Or Jesus who is called the Messiah
God is fair He will not forget what you have done He will remember the love you have shown him You showed it when you helped his people And you show it when you keep on helping them
Yes, Father. This is what you wanted to do.
It’s like a man going away. He leaves his house and puts his servants in charge. Each one is given a task to do. He tells the one at the door to keep watch.
They said, “Isn’t this Jesus, the son of Joseph? Don’t we know his father and mother? How can he now say, ‘I came down from heaven’?”
Pilate wanted to let Jesus go. So he made an appeal to the crowd again.
There the servant of a Roman commander was sick and about to die
All of this proves that when God judges he is fair
Instead do it because you want to Thats what God wants you to do
What would it benefit if we report
He kept on talking until daylight Then he left
Tombs broke open. The bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life.
I have the same hope in God that these men themselves have. I believe that both the godly and the ungodly will rise from the dead.
I will also continue to help you be joyful in what you have been taught
I know that you are Abrahams children
And suppose visitors or unbelievers come in
God will bring Jesus back at a time that pleases him.
Then he bowed his head and died.
Most of them are still living.
The Most Important Commandment
Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in. I will eat with that person, and they will eat with me.
love builds them up
Jesus answered, “What I’m about to tell you is true. The Son can do nothing by himself. He can do only what he sees his Father doing. What the Father does, the Son also does.
But there are those God has chosen, both Jews and Greeks. To them Christ is God’s power and God’s wisdom.
At that exact moment a rooster began to crow
We believe that Jesus died and rose again. When he returns, many who believe in him will have died already. We believe that God will bring them back with Jesus.
Dear children
But here is what you must understand.
On judgment day it will be brought to light. It will be put through fire. The fire will test how good each person’s work is.
“I have sinned,” he said. “I handed over a man who is not guilty.”
“Leave her alone,” Jesus said. “Why are you bothering her? She has done a beautiful thing to me.
Jesus prayed while he lived on earth. He made his appeal with sincere cries and tears. He prayed to the God who could save him from death. God answered Jesus because he truly honored God.
As a result, they were unable to find medical services that would allow them to go to a health station when various diseases occurred።
It was six days before the Passover Feast Jesus came to Bethany where Lazarus lived Lazarus was the one Jesus had risen from the dead
I am he Jesus said
Aboutfour thousend people were there. After Jesus sent them away,
I was tested by the evil plans of the Jews who disagreed with me.
God chose to give us new birth through the message of truth He wanted us to be the first harvest of his new creation
But I want you to keep your head no matter what happens Dont give up when times are hard Work to spread the good news Do everything God has given you to do
Then Jesus told them to give her something to eat.
The wheat began to grow and form grain At the same time weeds appeared
Anyone who hates their brother or sister is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life.
I will use a nation that has no understanding to make you angry
He stood beside me and said,
So God will fool them completely Then they will believe the lie
John was coming to the end of his work Who do you suppose I am he said I am not the one you are looking for
But God showed me mercy anyway I did those things without knowing any better I wasnt a believer
If I go and do that, I will come back. And I will take you to be with me. Then you will also be where I am.
I have come to do what you want, my God.’ ”
Dont be controlled by love for money
The leaders warned them again Then they let them go They couldnt decide how to punish Peter and John
I have told you these things so that you can have peace because of me
When did it happen Was it after Abraham was circumcised or before It was before he was circumcised not after
You became sad just as God wanted you to So you were not hurt in any way by us
Other seed fell among thorns The thorns grew up with it and crowded out the plants
Christ’s Sacrifice Is Once and for All Time
They tie up heavy loads that are hard to carry. Then they put them on other people’s shoulders. But they themselves aren’t willing to lift a finger to move them.
Christ has paid the price for you. Don’t become slaves of human beings.
Don’t be upset whether that message is spoken or written or prophesied.
They will give him this authority until God’s words come true.
That belief and understanding lead to the hope of eternal life
Pay everything you owe. But you can never pay back all the love you owe one another. Whoever loves other people has done everything the law requires.
Here is what was written in the Scripture already given.
They knew that all the people were praising God for what had happened
They heard Paul talk about the dead being raised Some of them made fun of this idea
Here is the message we have heard from him and announce to you
Also, the Father does not judge anyone.
King Agrippa it is also because of this hope that these Jews are bringing charges against me
Moses was taught all the knowledge of the people of Egypt.
All of them ate and were satisfied The disciples picked up twelve baskets of leftover pieces
The other ten disciples heard about it. They became angry at James and John.
Hurry home
And I saw God sitting on it
One Sabbath day Jesus walked through the grainfields His disciples were hungry So they began to break off some heads of grain and eat them
I saw you kissing Abrham .
Here is my covenant with them.
Then you will be pure and without blame You will be children of God without fault among sinful and evil people Then you will shine among them like stars in the sky
The bread of God is the bread that comes down from heaven. He gives life to the world.”
You want to obey your fathers wishes
“Which of the two do you want me to set free?” asked the governor.
“Wake up, sleeper.
We are Gods creation He created us to belong to Christ Jesus Now we can do good works Long ago God prepared these works for us to do
Brother Saul receive your sight
In the same way the husbands body does not belong only to him
A widow who really needs help and is left all alone puts her hope in God Night and day she keeps on praying Night and day she asks God for help
These people include those who practice witchcraft
Scripture says, “The two will become one.”
Some of those standing nearby heard Jesus cry out They said Listen Hes calling for Elijah
The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman. She had been caught committing adultery. They made her stand in front of the group.
There he met a Jew named Aquila who was a native of Pontus Aquila had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla
Jesus Chooses Matthew and Eats With Sinners
The people took the young man home. They were greatly comforted because he was alive.
He bent down again and wrote on the ground.
Everyone was amazed.
Babylon the Great has fallen
But we know where this man is from
Right away mist and darkness came over him.
We should think more carefully about what we are doing Then we would not be found guilty for this
What are they like
Then Jesus left the crowd and went into the house His disciples came to him They said Explain to us the story of the weeds in the field
But build one another up every day. Do it as long as there is still time. Then none of you will become stubborn. You won’t be fooled by sin’s tricks.
The first creature looked like a lion. The second looked like an ox. The third had a man’s face. The fourth looked like a flying eagle.
But others asked How can a sinner do such signs
When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up. The people asked, “Who is this?”
“Are you the king of the Jews?” asked Pilate.
Is it far?
The Lord will soon come back.
Greet Asyncritus Phlegon and Hermes Greet Patrobas Hermas and the other brothers and sisters with them
whose sins are taken away
The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were staring at him.
The beast was allowed to make war against God’s holy people and to overcome them. It was given authority over every tribe, people and nation, no matter what language they spoke.
Many people died because of the sin of that one man.
I will never send away anyone who comes to me
When the crowd and the city officials heard this, they became very upset.
And how about ships They are very big They are driven along by strong winds But they are steered by a very small rudder It makes them go where the captain wants to go
There they helped the believers gain strength They told them to remain faithful to what they had been taught
Some slaves have masters who are believers They shouldnt show their masters disrespect just because they are also believers
There is one body but it has many parts
What he says is true. He doesn’t lie.
The beast was allowed to use its authority for  months
The truth they once had has been taken away from them They think they can get rich by being godly
Whatever anyone else dares to brag about, I also dare to brag about. I’m speaking like a fool!
The whole building is held together by him. It rises to become a holy temple because it belongs to the Lord.
They spoke evil things against the God of heaven. They did this because of their pains and their sores. But they refused to turn away from the sins they had committed.
Mary would later pour perfume on the Lord She would also wipe Jesus feet with her hair
“We have found that Paul is a troublemaker. This man stirs up trouble among Jews all over the world. He is a leader of those who follow Jesus of Nazareth.
One day Jesus was teaching Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there
Some of the Pharisees in the crowd spoke to Jesus. “Teacher,” they said, “tell your disciples to stop!”
Now you know what is holding back the man of sin
But we didnt use that right
“So Abraham left the land of Babylonia. He settled in Harran. After his father died, God sent Abraham to this land where you are now living.
Then they motioned to his father.
He sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked on and on Sound asleep Eutychus fell from the third floor
Suppose you have not been worthy of trust in handling someone else’s property.Then who will give you property of your own?
But we preach about Christ and his death on the cross. That is very hard for Jews to accept. And everyone else thinks it’s foolish.
The builder will be saved, but only like one escaping through the flames.
“You unbelieving and evil people!” Jesus replied. “How long do I have to stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you? Bring the boy here to me.”
Jesus Explains the Story of the Weeds
Stop drinking only water If your stomach is upset drink a little wine It can also help the other sicknesses you often have
And no one can take this honor for himself.
You are God Your throne will last for ever and ever
Aren’t you controlled by a demon?”
The men had not eaten for a long time. Paul stood up in front of them. “Men,” he said, “you should have taken my advice not to sail from Crete. Then you would have avoided this harm and loss.
Do not take a bag for the journey Do not take extra clothes or sandals or walking sticks A worker should be given what he needs
I was hungry But you gave me nothing to eat I was thirsty But you gave me nothing to drink
So obey God.
And the man you live with now is not your husband
The whole world was amazed and followed the beast
“‘I will not,’ the son answered. But later he changed his mind and went.
he said. “Cut the grain.
If you obey my commands; you will remain in my love. In the same way, I have obeyed my Father’s commands and remain in his love.
He helped him to become the friend of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt.
The dragon stood on the seashore.
Instead, praise God because you are known by the name of Christ.
With your heart you believe and are made right with God.
The believers at Lystra and Iconium said good things about Timothy.
A wise person isnt proud when they do good deeds
Then the disciples went out and preached everywhere. The Lord worked with them. And he backed up his word by the signs that went with it.
We are sending this letter to you the members of the churches in Galatia
That’s the hope we had when we were saved.
If anyone speaks
Jesus replied, “That’s right. Elijah is supposed to come and make all things new again.
He has saved us from the kingdom of darkness. He has brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves.
They openly said that they were outsiders and strangers on earth
I remember seeing him
It was about noon
All who take part in the games train hard. They do it to get a crown that will not last. But we do it to get a crown that will last forever.
You yourselves are witnesses that I said
That will continue until we all become one in the faith. We will also become one in the knowledge of God’s Son. Then we will be grown up in the faith. We will receive everything that Christ has for us.
How long Lord and King holy and true they asked
I am the good shepherd
God brought you out of darkness into his wonderful light.
The high priest and all his companions were Sadducees They were very jealous of the apostles
You were taught to start living a new life It is created to be truly good and holy just as God is
Who makes you different from anyone else
Thats because Christ our Passover Lamb has been offered up for us
It does not brag.
There is a fire that never goes out. Those people are an example of those who are punished with it.
You are asking me to prove that Christ is speaking through me
John answered them all
They entered the tomb As they did they saw a young man dressed in a white robe He was sitting on the right side They were alarmed
Esli was the son of Naggai
Here is what happened.
Then Jesus said to them The Sabbath day was made for man Man was not made for the Sabbath day
“By what authority are you doing these things?” they asked. “Who gave you authority to do this?”
So don’t worship statues of gods, as some of them did. It is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink. Then they got up to dance wildly in front of their god.”
A woman gave birth to him.
Something that looked like a huge mountain on fire was thrown into the sea
He also told us about your love that comes from the Holy Spirit
It was about noon on Preparation Day in Passover Week
The slave who had received five bags of gold went at once and put his money to work He earned five bags more
and my wife is old too
In fact, no one understands them. What they say by the Spirit remains a mystery.
He shouted at the top of his voice Jesus Son of the Most High God what do you want with me
He went to Pilate and asked for Jesus body Pilate ordered that it be given to him
You will not let your holy one rot away.
There they helped the believers gain strength. They told them to remain faithful to what they had been taught.
When the crowds heard this they were amazed by what he taught
Then the Jews said See how much he loved him
Right away an angel of the Lord struck Herod down. Herod had not given praise to God. So he was eaten by worms and died.
After the two days, Jesus left for Galilee.
Whoever belongs to God hears what God says.
I didn’t see any of the other apostles. I only saw James, the Lord’s brother.
The law is not based on faith In fact it is just the opposite It teaches that the person who does these things will live by them
I quit
There is no law against things of that kind
I found that the commandment that was supposed to bring life actually brought death
I have come down to set them free
He longs for all of you
We are also sending another one of our brothers with them. He has often proved to us in many ways that he is very committed. He is now even more committed because he has great faith in you.
He commanded us to preach to the people. He told us to tell people that he is the one appointed by God to judge the living and the dead.
This will really happen Amen
Were you baptized in the name of Paul?
The Son can do nothing by himself. He can do only what he sees his Father doing.
So you arent a slave any longer You are Gods child Because you are his child God gives you the rights of those who are his children
They ruled fairly
“He himself carried our sins” in his body on the cross.
what is out of sight will be brought into the open and made known
The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun.
Whoever hates me hates my Father also.
The Gentiles will put their hope in him.”
It was completely calm
The child is not dead. She is only sleeping.”
Two years passed. Porcius Festus took the place of Felix. But Felix wanted to do the Jews a favor. So he left Paul in prison.
But here is the order of events Christ is the first of those who rise from the dead When he comes back those who belong to him will be raised
The Lamb broke open the fourth seal. Then I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, “Come!”
Another angel came out of the temple in heaven.
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you
But when you give a banquet invite those who are poor Also invite those who cant see or walk
You must love one another, just as I have loved you.
You are worth more than many sparrows.
I don't go to school.
There we found some believers. They invited us to spend a week with them. At last we came to Rome.
They replied, “The Lord needs it.”
The twelve gates were made from twelve pearls.
While we live in this tent of ours, we groan under our heavy load. We don’t want to be naked. Instead, we want to be fully dressed with our house in heaven. What must die will be swallowed up by life?
In the same way, the husband’s body does not belong only to him.
Paul Plans to Visit Rome
They will rule in his kingdom They have received Gods gift and have been made right with him This will happen because of what the one man Jesus Christ has done
Whoever listens to you listens to me
In that way They will see but never know what they are seeingThey will hear but never understandOtherwise they might turn and be forgiven
In fact that time is already here You will leave me all alone
If you love me obey my commands
When people heard that voice long ago they begged it not to say anything more to them
It is written,
Christ has accepted you. So accept one another in order to bring praise to God.
Blind Bartimaeus Receives His Sight
Praise and honor belong
Elijah was a human being, just as we are. He prayed hard that it wouldn’t rain. And it didn’t rain on the land for three and a half years.
Peter Speaks to the People at the Temple
Remember you dont give life to the root The root gives life to you
While Apollos was at Corinth Paul took the road to Ephesus
We have heard him.
Try hard.
You will be treated badly for ten days
In fact, it was just the opposite. We worked night and day.
What is your life?
The next day we landed at Sidon. There Julius was kind to Paul. He let Paul visit his friends so they could give him what he needed.
I will know this if I come and see you or only hear about you.
Do not be amazed at this
I care very little if I am judged by you or by any human court.
Jesus was equal with God
Titus has gone to Dalmatia
It does not keep track of other peoples wrongs
I told them the good news that I preach among the Gentiles.
Above all, here is what you must understand. No prophecy in Scripture ever came from a prophet’s own understanding of things.
So get rid of every kind of evil and stop telling lies Dont pretend to be something you are not Stop wanting what others have and dont speak against one another
They tried to take him into the house to place him in front of Jesus
Those who live on the earth will be happy about this
they say evil things against heavenly beings.
Paul looked right at him.
The King of the Jews.
“Hallelujah!
So they don’t follow Christ’s teaching.
Marriage When the Dead Rise
All things are yours.
I served the Lord with tears and without pride I served him when I was greatly tested
“I am not controlled by a demon,” said Jesus. “I honor my Father. You do not honor me.
God saved Lot, a man who did what was right. Lot was shocked by the evil conduct of people who didn’t obey God’s laws.
The tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus.
In that way, Christ will be the first and most honored among many brothers and sisters.
It is a chosen and very valuable stone
Before he sailed, he had his hair cut off at Cenchreae. He did this because he had made a promise to God.
You dont care how important they are
Saul was also known as Paul. He was filled with the Holy Spirit. He looked straight at Elymas.
The weapons I fight with are not the weapons the world uses In fact it is just the opposite
If you know about them you will have a safe path to follow
The power of the horses was in their mouths and in their tails.
Now you know what is holding back the man of sin He is held back so that he can make his appearance at the right time
He gave them ears that could not hear
I told them that this is not the way Romans do things We dont judge people before they have faced those bringing charges against them They must have a chance to argue against the charges for themselves
At the same time the  elders fall down and worship the one who sits on the throne He lives for ever and ever They lay their crowns in front of the throne They say
The next day we went on to Neapolis.
But you know that Christ came to take our sins away And there is no sin in him
After the Wise Men had listened to the king they went on their way The star they had seen when it rose went ahead of them It finally stopped over the place where the child was
Every wrong thing we do is sin But there are sins that do not lead to death
A door has opened wide for me to do some good work here
I know what you are doing.
A priest happened to be going down that same road.
So they sent Barnabas to Antioch.
That day Herod and Pilate became friends. Before this time they had been enemies.
People Don’t Agree About Who Jesus Is
The Holy Spirit will teach you at that time what you should say.”
What is written in the Law
Since they have no fruit they are pulled out of the ground So they die twice
Renew my heart We know that Christ is the one who really renews it
After his suffering and death, he appeared to them. In many ways he proved that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of  days. During that time he spoke about God’s kingdom.
What God commanded was too much for them.
The Jews who killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets also forced us to leave They do not please God They are enemies of everyone
I took Titus along also
The rest were killed by the sword that came out of the rider’s mouth. All the birds stuffed themselves with the dead bodies.
Brothers and sisters, you are not in darkness.
They will not be judged. They have crossed over from death to life.
Jesus explained to them what was said about himself in all the Scriptures. He began with Moses and all the Prophets.
Where did you fall for you
“Why is this fellow talking like that? He’s saying a very evil thing! Only God can forgive sins!”
We were also chosen to belong to him. God decided to choose us long ago in keeping with his plan. He works out everything to fit his plan and purpose.
Blessed is anyone who does not give up their faith because of me
On the fourteenth night the wind was still pushing us across the Adriatic Sea. About midnight the sailors had a feeling that they were approaching land.
No! But what is sacrificed by those who worship statues of gods is really sacrificed to demons. It is not sacrificed to God.
But God loves us deeply He is full of mercy
“Tell me, teacher,” he said.
They have suffered a great deal. But in their suffering, their joy was more than full. Even though they were very poor, they gave very freely.
The sins of some people are easy to see.
Gods temple is holy
They arrived at Ephesus There Paul said goodbye to Priscilla and Aquila
And that’s not all.
Suppose our good news is covered with a veil. Then it is veiled to those who are dying.
Jesus is not here He has risen Remember how he told you he would rise It was while he was still with you in Galilee
On the Sabbath day we went outside the city gate. We walked down to the river. There we expected to find a place of prayer.
They believed because of what the woman had said about him
You must help us by praying for us Then many people will give thanks because of what will happen to us They will thank God for his kindness to us in answer to the prayers of many
I know you cant put up with evil people
They do not understand. They can’t be trusted. They are not loving and kind.
Let their feast be a trap and a snare
Our faith has won the battle for us
Those who had seen it told the others how the man who had been controlled by demons was now healed.
By remembering them you can fight the battle well
God may want you to suffer for doing good. That’s better than suffering for doing evil.
But he gives grace to those who are humble.” (Proverbs :)
“But those he ruled over hated him. They sent some messengers after him. They were sent to say, ‘We don’t want this man to be our king.’
Brothers and sisters, here is a command we give you.
they are choked by life’s worries, riches and pleasures. So they do not reach full growth.
What more can I say I dont have time to tell about all the others I dont have time to talk about Gideon Barak Samson and Jephthah I dont have time to tell about David and Samuel and the prophets
Then you will become holy.
Christ did not send me to baptize He sent me to preach the good news
The time when I will leave is near.
All the brothers and sisters who are with me join me in writing.
They were surprised and terrified They thought they were seeing a ghost
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples. He said, “I tell you, do not worry. Don’t worry about your life and what you will eat. And don’t worry about your body and what you will wear.
Then Jesus said to them, “Give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. And give back to God what belongs to God.”
The people of Israel did not receive what they wanted so badly.
They must give freely. They must be willing to share.
But Abraham believed in God’s promise. He became strong in his faith. He gave glory to God.
Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit. He said to them,
But they tried to kill him.
But these people say evil things against whatever they don’t understand. And the very things they do understand will destroy them.
When I saw him I fell at his feet as if I were dead Then he put his right hand on me and said Do not be afraid I am the First and the Last
let us love one another because love comes from God
When you are invited into a house, stay there until you leave town.
The Jewish people all know how I have lived ever since I was a child They know all about me from the beginning of my life They know how I lived in my own country and in Jerusalem
Before the law was given sin was in the world This is certainly true
But my life might even be poured out like a drink offering on your sacrifices
So does belonging to Christ help you in any way?
The world cant accept him
And he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea.
So after he heard Lazarus was sick he stayed where he was for two more days
Then some of the people of Jerusalem began asking questions. They said, “Isn’t this the man some people are trying to kill?
Long ago these spirits did not obey. That was when God was patient while Noah was building the ark.
They had Peter and John brought to them. They wanted to question them.
I hope they will be forgiven for it
We will hear a loud command.
When Jesus finished washing their feet he put on his clothes Then he returned to his place
Simon Peter answered, “You are the Messiah. You are the Son of the living God.”
The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did
You say I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebul. Then by whose power do your people drive them out? So then, they will be your judges.
In peace not in war there is no country that is effective
So then, the man who marries the virgin does the right thing. But the man who doesn’t marry her does a better thing.
No! We believe we are saved through the grace of our Lord Jesus. The Gentiles are saved in the same way.”
For three days he took care of us. He treated us with kindness.
Mary reached the place where Jesus was. When she saw him, she fell at his feet. She said, “Lord, I wish you had been here! Then my brother would not have died.”
I heard her singing.
What is your life
Be completely gentle.
Are you thinking of killing me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday
In those days the number of believers was growing
Do you believe Moses? Then you should believe me. He wrote about me.
Do not take a purse or bag or sandals.
Sit tight
Titus has gone to Dalmatia.
This angel raised his right hand to heaven.
When he does come, he must remain for only a little while.
At one time we all lived among them. Our desires were controlled by sin. We tried to satisfy what they wanted us to do. We followed our desires and thoughts. God was angry with us like he was with everyone else. That’s because of the kind of people we all were.
Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses. In the same way, the teachers I’m talking about oppose the truth.
People came running from all directions.
The promises were given to Abraham
He made them all go outside. He took only the child’s father and mother and the disciples who were with him. And he went in where the child was.
But suppose the servant does not know his master’s wishes. And suppose the servant does things for which he should be punished.
They had not committed sexual sins with women. They had kept themselves pure. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among human beings as a first offering to God and the Lamb.
They believed that you sent me
Adam also became a pattern of the Messiah. The Messiah was the one who was going to come.
It was Preparation Day The Sabbath day was about to begin
And you show it when you keep on helping them
Here I am Here are the children God has given me
And I won’t brag about work done by others. If I did, I would be bragging more than I should.
Who Is the Most Important Person in the Kingdom
When the disciples heard this, they were really amazed. They asked, “Then who can be saved?”
But the donkey spoke with a human voice It tried to stop the prophet from doing a very dumb thing
Don’t put anything in their way that would make them trip and fall.
Judas Iscariot was one of them too. He was the one who was later going to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
Both of them were running
In other words Gods children are not just in the family line of Abraham Instead they are the children God promised to him They are the ones considered to be Abrahams children
As Jesus was on his way, the crowds almost crushed him.
In fact he is the one speaking with you
But those elders who are sinning should be corrected in front of everyone. This will be a warning to the others.
“You have said so,” Jesus replied.
Christ is the one we preach about. With all the wisdom we have, we warn and teach everyone.
Enoch was the seventh man in the family line of Adam. He gave a prophecy about these people. He said, “Look! The Lord is coming with thousands and thousands of his holy ones.
They nailed him to the cross Then they divided up his clothes They cast lots to see what each of them would get
Rise from the dead
Shouldnt I drink the cup of suffering the Father has given me
These ungodly people are like stains at the meals you share. They have no shame. They are shepherds who feed only themselves.
Suppose someone welcomes a prophet as a prophet They will receive a prophets reward And suppose someone welcomes a godly person as a godly person They will receive a godly persons reward
So Herod called together all the chief priests of the people He also called the teachers of the law He asked them where the Messiah was going to be born
But don’t think of them as an enemy.
It is time to destroy those who destroy the earth.”
The three most important things to have are faith hope and love
Here is something else God says about the angels.
But he was killed.
no matter what language they speak
Do not be afraid when you hear about wars and about fighting against rulers. Those things must happen first. But the end will not come right away.”
The Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were only two days away. The chief priests and the teachers of the law were plotting to arrest Jesus secretly. They wanted to kill him.
Her spirit returned, and right away she stood up. Then Jesus told them to give her something to eat.
If he weren’t, you couldn’t do the signs you are doing.”
These teachers are never satisfied They want to get something out of you
Here is my opinion about what is best for you in that matter.
He has come at the time when Gods work is being completed He has come to do away with sin by offering himself
You have taken with you the shrine of your false god Molek
When there was no reason for hope Abraham believed because he had hope He became the father of many nations exactly as God had promised God said That is how many children you will have
When you received Christ, your circumcision was not done by human hands. Instead, your circumcision was done by Christ. He put away the person you used to be. At that time, sin’s power ruled over you.
So we were happy to share with you Gods good news
We have planted spiritual seed among you. Is it too much to ask that we receive from you some things we need?
Instead you are acting as if you were its judge
He is a witness so that you also may believe.
When he finds it he will joyfully put it on his shoulders
“Then they will go away to be punished forever. But those who have done what is right will receive eternal life.”
You have no part or share in this holy work
I saw an angel standing in the sun.
In fact that is going to happen What does not last will be dressed with what lasts forever
If we live we live to honor the Lord
I’ve decided to spend the winter there.
But be careful how you use your rights Be sure you dont cause someone weaker than you to fall into sin
I wasn’t stirring up a crowd in the synagogues or anywhere else in the city.
Then someone must explain what was said
Long ago our people ate the manna in the desert It is written in Scripture
God trains all his children. But what if he doesn’t train you? Then you are not really his children. You are not God’s true sons and daughters at all.
He shouted at the top of his voice Jesus Son of the Most High God what do you want with me Swear to God that you wont hurt me
Paul had said that they would never see him again. That’s what hurt them the most.
You are the branches.
He said, “The Son of Man must suffer many things. The elders will not accept him. The chief priests and the teachers of the law will not accept him either. He must be killed and on the third day rise from the dead.”
We all have gifts They differ according to the grace God has given to each of us
And was it really for nothing?
Save others by pulling them out of the fire To others show mercy mixed with fear of sin Hate even the clothes that are stained by the sins of those who wear them
To knowledge, add the ability to control yourselves.
God is the only one who can’t die. He lives in light that no one can get close to. No one has seen him. No one can see him. Honor and power belong to him forever. Amen.
The Pharisees were gathered together Jesus asked them
So faith comes from hearing the message. And the message that is heard is the message about Christ.
And so is the Holy Spirit God has given the Spirit to those who obey him
Jacob had faith So he blessed each of Josephs sons He blessed them when he was dying Because of his faith he worshiped God Jacob worshiped as he leaned on the top of his walking stick
Jesus knew what they were thinking So he said Why do you have evil thoughts in your hearts
Thats how we should live as we wait for the blessed hope God has given us We are waiting for Jesus Christ to appear in his glory He is our great God and Savior
Take them with you. Join them in the Jewish practice that makes people pure and ‘clean.’ Pay their expenses so they can have their heads shaved. Then everyone will know that these reports about you are not true in any way. They will know that you yourself obey the law.
Isnt it you
Put up with hard times God uses them to train you
No one on the roof should go down into the house to take anything out
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him. The sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
Paul Arrives in Jerusalem
I’m speaking to the elders among you.
The name he received is more excellent than theirs.
Pharaoh learned about Joseph’s family.
In the very same way these ungodly people act on their evil dreams So they make their own bodies impure They dont accept authority And they say evil things against heavenly beings
They will be made holy
God the Father gave him honor and glory
When they came near the crowd, a man approached Jesus. He got on his knees in front of him.
God is certainly fair!
I will make them say in public that I have loved you
It is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news!”
But you have disrespected poor people.
You claim to teach others but you dont even teach yourself You preach against stealing But you steal
Follow it with faith and love because you belong to Christ Jesus.
I now say it again while Im away
His body wouldn’t rot in the ground.
Haven’t you read the Law? It tells how every Sabbath day the priests in the temple have to do their work on that day. But they are not considered guilty.
That includes bringing up children.
Suppose one of you says to them, “Go. I hope everything turns out fine for you. Keep warm. Eat well.” And suppose you do nothing about what they really need. Then what good have you done?
You pretender First take the piece of wood out of your own eye Then you will be able to see clearly to take the bit of sawdust out of your friends eye
Hasn’t he chosen them to receive the kingdom? Hasn’t he promised it to those who love him?
At one time he brought them out of Egypt
Then why didnt you put my money in the bank When I came back I could have collected it with interest
I will brag about a man like that. But I won’t brag about myself. I will brag only about how weak I am.
which the Lord hates
Then they are perfect They are able to keep their whole body under control
Then Jesus said to his disciples What Im about to tell you is true It is hard for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of heaven
My son think of the Lords training as important
Jesus was driving out a demon The man who had the demon could not speak
In the last days people will make fun of the truth. They will laugh at it. They will follow their own evil desires.
What Im about to tell you is true If he finds that sheep he is happier about the one than about the nighnity ninethat didnt wander off
Lofe Lofe Le Wag Youth is a moment of freedom for men ።
You are the children that God dearly loves So follow his example
Some of the people who were there said to Jesus, “John’s disciples often pray and go without eating. So do the disciples of the Pharisees. But yours go on eating and drinking.”
How long do I have to put up with you?”
Jesus had performed so many signs in front of them But they still would not believe in him
Suppose the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in other languages And suppose visitors or unbelievers come in Wont they say you are out of your minds
Watch out! You will be handed over to the local courts. You will be whipped in the synagogues.
They told Aaron Make us a god who will lead us
Peter Again Says He Is Not Jesus Disciple
Salvation comes through the Holy Spirit’s work.
You will always have poor people with you. But you will not always have me.
In fact, no one understands them. What they say by the Spirit remains a mystery.
The Spirit does this because you have been made right with God
Wearing gold jewelry
Jesus allowed it The evil spirits came out of the man and went into the pigs There were about two thoused pigs in the herd The whole herd rushed down the steep bank They ran into the lake and drowned
It was about four o’clock in the afternoon.
with burnt offerings and sin offerings.
Wives, follow the lead of your husbands. That’s what the Lord wants you to do.
“Tell us,” they said. “When will these things happen? And what will be the sign that they are all about to come true?”
On judgment day it will be brought to light It will be put through fire The fire will test how good each persons work is
At that very moment the men sent by Cornelius found Simons house They stopped at the gate
When did it happen
You already have everything you want, don’t you? Have you already become rich? Have you already begun to rule? And did you do that without us? I wish that you really had begun to rule. Then we could also rule with you!
Then those who come in can see the light.
What you have just said is very true
Every day the Lord added to their group those who were being saved
A certain ruler asked Jesus a question. “Good teacher,” he said, “what must I do to receive eternal life?”
So Jesus went with them. When Jesus came near the house,
Each of them should be absolutely sure in their own mind
Instead, gather for yourselves riches in heaven. There, moths and rats do not destroy them. There, thieves do not break in and steal them.
These facts cant be questioned So calm down
The rain comes down. The water rises. The winds blow and beat against that house. And it falls with a loud crash.”
They could not find a way to do this because of the crowd. So they went up on the roof.
So don’t go along with people like that.
He explained and proved that the Messiah had to suffer and rise from the dead. “This Jesus I am telling you about is the Messiah!” he said.
There was something that looked like a sea of glass in front of the throne.
But the man who had been blind kept saying I am the man
So how can you say that we will be set free
They love to have the most important seats in the synagogues
But members of the group called the Synagogue of the Freedmen began to oppose him. Some of them were Jews from Cyrene and Alexandria. Others were Jews from Cilicia and Asia Minor. They all began to argue with Stephen.
Many people were made sinners because one man did not obey
I don’t have time to tell about David and Samuel and the prophets.
sister isn’t God’s child either.
We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven We were with him on the sacred mountain
In the same way, he sprinkled the holy tent with blood. He also sprinkled everything that was used in worship there.
The Wise Men went to the house. There they saw the child with his mother Mary. They bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures. They gave him gold, frankincense and myrrh.
He was sent to a virgin. The girl was engaged to a man named Joseph. He came from the family line of David. The virgin’s name was Mary.
There were one hundred fourity four thousend from all the tribes of Israel.
‘Why did you make me like this?’ ”
“The God who saves will come from Mount Zion.
Jesus heard that the Pharisees had thrown the man out of the synagogue
those who are spiritual are like the heavenly man
Then Paul left the synagogue and went to the house next door. It was the house of Titius Justus, a man who worshiped God.
Right away a rooster crowed.
Only Luke is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you. He helps me in my work for the Lord.
The second one married her.
He is coming with Onesimus, our faithful and dear brother. He is one of you. They will tell you everything that is happening here.
I have spoken to you very honestly
But the angel said to them
My brother, you have renewed the hearts of the Lord’s people.
They should agree that what I am writing to you is the Lords command
If you dont you have no life in you
and said So you are going to destroy the temple and build it again in three days Then save yourself Come down from the cross if you are the Son of God
You may have had to suffer sadness in all kinds of trouble.
Which do you want Should I come to you to correct and punish you Or should I come in love and with a gentle spirit
There is no reason for it. So we wouldn’t be able to explain what has happened.”
The hope he gave us is good. May our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father
Some of their bodies were brought back to Shechem. They were placed in a tomb Abraham had bought. He had purchased it from Hamor’s sons at Shechem. He had purchased it for a certain amount of money.
They would rather have statues of gods than the glorious God who lives forever.
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit
But it talks big
Don’t forget to welcome outsiders. By doing that, some people have welcomed angels without knowing it.
Right away he began to preach in the synagogues He taught that Jesus is the Son of God
He called out to them Friends dont you have any fish
This news about Jesus spread all through Judea and the whole country.
Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives. There the disciples came to him in private. “Tell us,” they said. “When will this happen? And what will be the sign of your coming? What will be the sign of the end?”
It read,
We are parts of his body
Festus answered, “Paul is being held at Caesarea. Soon I’ll be going there myself.
Suppose you could have torn out your own eyes and given them to me. Then you would have done it. I am a witness to this.
And there is no sin in him.
you wont find me And what did he mean when he said You cant come where I am going
In fact, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be treated badly.
So when those who were hired first came, they expected to receive more. But each of them also received the usual day’s pay.
Many people who live on the earth will worship the beast They are the ones whose names are not written in the Lambs book of life
He will oppose everything that is called God. He will oppose everything that is worshiped.
The armies of heaven were following him, riding on white horses. They were dressed in fine linen, white and clean.
Hold on to what we taught you.
My brothers and sisters
Anyone who does not believe in the Son will not have life Gods anger remains on them
And because the Lord was with John they asked
They asked, “Then why did Moses command that a man can give his wife a letter of divorce and send her away?”
What you have said in the dark will be heard in the daylight
He took it and ate it in front of them.
I was quite annoyed.
He will hold us responsible for everything we do
He gave good reasons for believing the truth about Gods kingdom
Adam was not the one who was tricked. The woman was tricked and became a sinner.
All these things should describe you more and more. They will make you useful and fruitful as you know our Lord Jesus Christ better.
‘But I have a few things against you.
He went from house to house He dragged away men and women and put them in prison
He had been that way since he was born. Every day someone put him near the gate. There he would beg from people going into the temple courtyards.
They had not committed sexual sins with women. They had kept themselves pure.
The fourth angel blew his trumpet
That joy is mine and it is now complete
I'm used to it by now.
What we prophesy now is not perfect
The earth is ready to be harvested.”
It was red like fire, dark blue, and yellow like sulfur.
The man was healed right away. He picked up his mat and walked.
Even though I am not right there with you I am with you in spirit
The whole law is fulfilled by obeying this one command.
Bethany was less than two miles from Jerusalem
Paul reached the steps. But then the mob became so wild that he had to be carried by the soldiers.
Peter Heals a Beggar Who Cant Walk
The other guests began to talk about this among themselves.
both great and small.
Long ago you spoke by the Holy Spirit. You spoke through the mouth of our father David, who served you. You said,
Leading People to Sin
Then you will not do what your desires controlled by sin want you to do
Obey the emperor. He is the highest authority.
Birds sing.
Be ready to give the reason for it. But do it gently and with respect.
And you can be just as sure that everyone will kneel down in front of me
Thats why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife
We don’t give up. Our bodies are becoming weaker and weaker. But our spirits are being renewed day by day.
The Offering for the Lords People
And all the people listened to him, from the least important of them to the most important. They exclaimed, “It is right to call this man the Great Power of God!”
They asked What Are we blind too
You know the directions we gave you. They were given by the authority of the Lord Jesus.
But the person who prophesies builds up the church.
Hasn’t God made the wisdom of the world foolish?
He asked her, “Woman, why are you crying? Who are you looking for?”
I am a prisoner because of the Lord So I am asking you to live a life worthy of what God chose you for
They had been left there by the fishermen, who were washing their nets.
He is the one written about in Scripture. It says,“‘I will send my messenger ahead of you.He will prepare your way for you.’
The other ten disciples heard about this They became angry at the two brothers
Do I mean that food sacrificed to a statue of a god is anything Do I mean that a statue of a god is anything
But the word of the Lord lasts forever
Then they can advise the younger women to love their husbands and children.
Suppose our good news is covered with a veil Then it is veiled to those who are dying
Peter Goes to the House of Cornelius
He tries.
The councils are responsible for monitoring where the approved budget has come from the approval of the budget needed for the country።
Just what I have been telling you from the beginning Jesus replied
After Judas was gone, Jesus spoke. He said, “Now the Son of Man receives glory. And he brings glory to God.
But someday I will know completely, just as God knows me completely.
Paul and his companions traveled all through the area of Phrygia and Galatia.
He rushed in shaking with fear He fell down in front of Paul and Silas
Where have you put him he asked
If it is teaching, then teach.
After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter. “You must be one of them,” they said. “The way you talk gives you away.”
See that they have everything they need.
The angel measured the city with the rod.
But ‘in your mouth it will taste as sweet as honey.
The tenth was made out of turquoise.
to follow the lead of people like them Follow everyone who joins in the task and works hard at it
Many are invited but few are chosen
The Believers Share What They Own
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace.
They wont love others
Listen to the Word and Do What It Says
Then the young men came in They saw that Sapphira was dead
“Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees,” he said. “Wait until we mark with this seal the foreheads of those who serve our God.”
Come home
What Makes People “Unclean”?
Peter answered him We have left everything to follow you What reward will be given to us
Matthat was the son of Levi.
A written sign had been placed above him. It read,This is the King of the Jews.
Anyone who does not listen to him will be completely cut off from their people.’
Then he asked who Paul was and what he had done
But God feeds them
The Law was written in letters on stone. Even though it was a way of serving God, it led to death. But even that way of serving God came with glory. The glory lasted for only a short time. Even so, the people of Israel couldn’t look at Moses’ face very long.
If you do, you will be judged.
Some were put in prison.
Then one of the elders said to me
Can a blind person lead another blind person Wont they both fall into a pit
You are receiving the salvation of your souls This salvation is the final result of your faith
His word is not in us.
honor
Michael didnt dare to judge the devil He didnt say the devil was guilty of saying evil things
I am amazed You are so quickly deserting the one who chose you He chose you to live in the grace that Christ has provided You are turning to a different good news
Shouldn’t you have had mercy on the other servant just as I had mercy on you?’
Then the high priest questioned Stephen. “Is what these people are saying true?” he asked.
So they make up stories to take advantage of you
now does not, is an eighth king.
Here is what he told them to do Take only a walking stick for your trip Do not take bread or a bag Take no money in your belts
one right act made people right with God That one right act gave life to all people
God promised, “I will return at the appointed time. Sarah will have a son.”
And I give you a kingdom, just as my Father gave me a kingdom.
But blessed are your eyes because they see And blessed are your ears because they hear
Some believers from Cyprus and Cyrene went to Antioch There they began to speak to Greeks also They told them the good news about the Lord Jesus
Peter motioned with his hand for them to be quiet He explained how the Lord had brought him out of prison
What should we say then
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me.
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses their soul Or what can anyone trade for their soul
But all this has happened so that the words of the prophets would come true Then all the disciples left him and ran away
That doesn’t have any value. It only destroys those who listen.
Because of the crowd, Jesus told his disciples to get a small boat ready for him. This would keep the people from crowding him.
It is written, “The first man Adam became a living person.”
After that Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them This happened while they were walking out in the country
The Pharisees heard that the Sadducees weren’t able to answer Jesus. So the Pharisees got together.
He fell down headfirst in the field. His body burst open.
Jesus told his disciples another story. He said, “There was a rich man who had a manager. Some said that the manager was wasting what the rich man owned.
They started on their journey to serve Jesus Christ They didnt receive any help from those who arent believers
You will be filled with the fruit of right living produced by Jesus Christ All these things bring glory and praise to God
Love Is Necessary
Some time ago Theudas appeared He claimed he was really somebody
Stephen Is Killed
they shouted Crucify him Crucify him
what is out of sight will be brought into the open and made known.
The Sheep and the Goats
It is meant first for the Jews. It is meant also for the Gentiles.
Anyone who serves the Lord must not be hard to get along with Instead they must be kind to everyone They must be able to teach The one who serves must not hold anything against anyone
The men came to Jesus. They said, “John the Baptist sent us to ask you, ‘Are you the one who is supposed to come? Or should we look for someone else?’ ”
Be joyful!
We were not expecting people to praise us. We were not looking for praise from you or anyone else.
So finish the work. Then your desire to do it will be matched by your finishing it. Give on the basis of what you have.
“Then the King will speak to those on his right. He will say, ‘My Father has blessed you. Come and take what is yours. It is the kingdom prepared for you since the world was created.
Brothers and sisters, make sure that none of you has a sinful heart.
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were very angry. They began to talk to one another about what they might do to Jesus.
The witnesses are “the two olive trees” and the two lampstands. And “they stand in front of the Lord of the earth.”
He ordered him to be held with two chains
what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever
When Jesus found him, he said, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?”
God never said to an angel
I am very pleased that you are familiar with Jewish ways. You know the kinds of things they argue about.
The glory of the old covenant is nothing compared with the far greater glory of the new
“Jesus of Nazareth,” they replied.
Jesus finished telling these stories Then he moved on from there
Since we have that kind of hope we are very bold
God is full of grace From him we have all received grace in place of the grace already given
since God loved us this much,
The Father loves the Son and has put everything into his hands
Timothy, stay there in Ephesus. That is what I told you to do when I went into Macedonia.
The one considered least important among all of you is really the most important.”
But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God.
Jesus went indoors. Then his disciples asked him in private, “Why couldn’t we drive out the evil spirit?”
Where can you get this living water?
be glad for this
After this, Jesus went down to Capernaum. His mother and brothers and disciples went with him. They all stayed there for a few days.
Joseph was a Levite from Cyprus. The apostles called him Barnabas. The name Barnabas means Son of Help.
I myself did not know him
He commands you to lead a life of love.
go after it.
Forgive us our sins
The women were shaking and confused They went out and ran away from the tomb They said nothing to anyone because they were afraid
It stirs up trouble
They can go to the nearby villages and countryside There they can find food and a place to stay There is nothing here
Where can you get this living water
It will bring great joy for all the people
Have faith love and gentleness
Don’t put younger widows on that kind of list. They might want pleasure more than they want Christ. Then they would want to get married again.
Because you believed the good news, you are saved. But you must hold firmly to the message I preached to you. If you don’t, you have believed it for nothing.
Then he told me Do not seal up the words of the prophecy in this book These things are about to happen
If your eye causes you to sin, poke it out. It would be better for you to enter God’s kingdom with only one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into hell.
All God’s people here send you greetings. Most of all, those who live in the palace of Caesar send you greetings.
And he will continue to do it
Believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. Then you will be saved.
Paul replied, “I don’t care if it takes a short time or a long time. I pray to God for you and all who are listening to me today.
When the demons came out of the man they went into the pigs
Proper Worship
The name he received is more excellent than theirs
When you bear a lot of fruit it brings glory to my Father It shows that you are my disciples
Even with all our troubles my joy has no limit
Then you should become fools so that you can become wise
what will happen to him
And
A wife must not leave her husband.
We know that our suffering gives us the strength to go on
How can I reach you
So the front of it got stuck and wouldnt move
Paul and Barnabas told them all these things. But they had trouble keeping the crowd from offering sacrifices to them.
They did more than we expected First they gave themselves to the Lord
It is also written, “The Lord knows that the thoughts of wise people don’t amount to anything.”
Then the crowd there turned against Sosthenes, the synagogue leader.
You did not give up your faith in me.
“Lord,” they answered, “we want to be able to see.”
What I am saying is true and reasonable
He chose you to be saved by accepting the good news that we preach
Instead, you prepared a body for me.
And suppose a woman has long hair. Doesn’t the very nature of things teach you that it is her glory? Long hair is given to her as a covering.
The Jewish leaders did not want the bodies left on the crosses during the Sabbath day.
So don’t worry. Don’t say, ‘What will we eat?’ Or, ‘What will we drink?’ Or, ‘What will we wear?’
“The kingdom of heaven is like treasure that was hidden in a field.
I have found that he hasn’t done anything worthy of death. But he made his appeal to the Emperor. So I decided to send him to Rome.
They talked to one another about it They said If we say From heaven he will ask Why didnt you believe him
We are all witnesses of this.
But on the day Lot left Sodom, fire and sulfur rained down from heaven. And all the people were destroyed.
Give praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. Those blessings come from the heavenly world. They belong to us because we belong to Christ.
So Jesus made a whip out of ropes. He chased all the sheep and cattle from the temple courtyard.
So don’t be afraid. You are worth more than many sparrows.
More than that we would be lying about God We are witnesses that God raised Christ from the dead
John the Baptist Prepares the Way
With our tongues we praise our Lord and Father. With our tongues we curse people.
And here is what God has promised us. He has promised us eternal life.
He is asking for you
And this was the way it was with me, brothers and sisters. When I came to you, I didn’t come with fancy words or human wisdom. I preached to you the truth about God’s love.
I tell you he replied if they keep quiet the stones will cry out
They both stood up
There is only one God When those who are circumcised believe in him
One of the women listening was from the city of Thyatira. Her name was Lydia, and her business was selling purple cloth. She was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to accept Paul’s message.
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins So Jesus spoke to the man who could not walk
We belong to Christ if we hold tightly to the faith we had at first But we must hold it tightly until the end
God is faithful He has chosen you to share life with his Son Jesus Christ our Lord
They were given power over a fourth of the earth
And all the people listened to him from the least important of them to the most important They exclaimed It is right to call this man the Great Power of God
But the one who sent me to baptize with water told me, ‘You will see the Spirit come down and remain on someone.
It does not look out for its own interests
But the renters grabbed his slaves They beat one of them They killed another They threw stones at the third to kill him
What you have said in the dark will be heard in the daylight.
While God is watching, warn them not to argue about words.
Holy brothers and sisters, God chose you to be his people. So keep thinking about Jesus. We embrace him as our apostle and our high priest.
But when the Son of Man came, he ate and drank as you do. And people say, ‘This fellow is always eating and drinking far too much. He’s a friend of tax collectors and “sinners.” ’ By wise actions wisdom is shown to be right.”
Those who have not shown mercy will not receive mercy when they are judged To show mercy is better than to judge
“Now I am going to Jerusalem. The Holy Spirit compels me.
But when they came to Jesus, they saw that he was already dead.
In Scripture, God says to Pharaoh, “I had a special reason for making you king. I decided to use you to show my power. I wanted my name to become known everywhere on earth.”
The Son is the shining brightness of Gods glory
Jesus was equal with God.
But knowledge makes people proud
How terrible!
You are a woman God has blessed. You have believed that the Lord would keep his promises to you!
I have found that he hasnt done anything worthy of death
All of this was done in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.
You pretender First take the piece of wood out of your own eye
The Good Shepherd and His Sheep
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High God
But all its many parts make up one body
I’m sure of this. So I know I will remain with you. And I will continue with all of you to help you grow in your faith. I will also continue to help you be joyful in what you have been taught.
Not too far away, he saw a fig tree. It was covered with leaves. He went to find out if it had any fruit. When he reached it, he found nothing but leaves. It was not the season for figs.
He took many prisoners.He gave gifts to his people.”
There is no doubt that true godliness comes from this great mystery.
There is no doubt that true godliness comes from this great mystery
Earlier Isaiah had said,
A cloth was around his face
“Teacher, when you say things like that, you say bad things about us too.”
Jesus turned and saw her. “Dear woman, don’t give up hope,” he said. “Your faith has healed you.” The woman was healed at that moment.
Instead, they longed for a better country.
Come See a man who told me everything Ive ever done
Someone in the crowd spoke to Jesus. “Teacher,” he said, “tell my brother to divide the family property with me.”
You didnt give it up even in the days of Antipas Antipas my faithful witness was put to death in your city where Satan lives
So he got up from the meal and took off his outer clothes
You have been born again by means of the living word of God. His word lasts forever. You were not born again from a seed that will die. You were born from a seed that can’t die.
Then Pilate went back inside the palace. He ordered Jesus to be brought to him. Pilate asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?”
‘I know what you are doing. I know you aren’t cold or hot.
But we will all be changed.
I will speak about what Christ has done through me I wont try to speak about anything else
The message as it has been taught can be trusted He must hold firmly to it
He is the father of us all.
Instead one believer goes to court against another
The one whom God has sent speaks Gods words Thats because God gives the Holy Spirit without limit
He made you lie to the Holy Spirit. You have kept some of the money you received for the land.
Who is going to hurt you if you really want to do good?
A deacon must be faithful to his wife. He must manage his children and family well.
Jesus Is Taken Up Into Heaven
Dont be like that Instead anyone who wants to be important among you must be your servant
You want to obey your father’s wishes.
Jesus went indoors Then his disciples asked him in private Why couldnt we drive out the evil spirit
They were bold when they spoke Gods word
Ask God to help and bless them. Give thanks for them. Pray for kings. Pray for everyone who is in authority.
Paul wanted to appear in front of the crowd. But the believers wouldn’t let him.
Jesus Prays in Gethsemane
Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” “Legion,” he replied, because many demons had gone into him.
Suppose a man has long hair Doesnt the very nature of things teach you that it is shameful
Save others by pulling them out of the fire.
What Im about to tell you is true No one more important than John the Baptist has ever been born But the least important person in the kingdom of heaven is more important than he is
One of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him.
One of the criminals hanging there made fun of Jesus. He said, “Aren’t you the Messiah? Save yourself! Save us!”
But with loud shouts they kept calling for Jesus to be crucified. The people’s shouts won out.
Believe me when I say I am in the Father
God was bringing the world back to himself through Christ
Many who believe in Christ will have died already.
I was quite satisfied
I will take away their sins
But Christ came to be the high priest of the good things already here now. When he came, he went through the greater and more perfect holy tent. This tent was not made with human hands. In other words, it is not a part of this creation.
But you refuse to come to me and receive life.
You have made them priests to serve our God.
The boat was already a long way from land It was being pounded by the waves because the wind was blowing against it
I will not let that person be hurt at all by the second death
Peter replied, “Man, I don’t know what you’re talking about!” Just as he was speaking, the rooster crowed.
If I make you sad who is going to make me glad Only you the people I made sad
He lived in the desert until he appeared openly to Israel.
As soon as Judas took the bread, Satan entered into him.
Then I asked Who are you Lord
Now I am happy. I’m not happy because you were made sad. I’m happy because your sadness led you to turn away from your sins. You became sad just as God wanted you to. So you were not hurt in any way by us.
Their worship comes from Satan
Adam also became a pattern of the Messiah The Messiah was the one who was going to come
I cried and cried. That’s because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll
A go-between means that there is more than one side to an agreement.
The strength to go on produces character
Don‘t be too quick to place your hands on others to set them apart to serve God.
All things were made through him
“Go to that chariot. Stay near it.”
the Roman commander sent friends to him He told them to say
Do not be joined to unbelievers. What do right and wrong have in common? Can light and darkness be friends?
Or suppose he asks for a fish. Which of you will give him a snake?
“But you live like one who is not.
Jesus Sends Out the Twelve Disciples
You look pale today.
The God who gives peace will soon crush Satan under your feet.
Then my brother would not have died.
He is the judge
But if it dies it produces many seeds
That’s why I’m suffering the way I am. But this gives me no reason to be ashamed.
God lives in anyone who agrees that Jesus is the Son of God.
Then he came back Again he found them sleeping They couldnt keep their eyes open They did not know what to say to him
God’s anger has come on them at last.
Deaf people hear
Anyone who speaks against a brother or sister speaks against the law.
He said this while he was teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum
Is this any way to answer the high priest he asked
Instead the Holy Spirit guided the prophets as they spoke So although prophets are human prophecy comes from God
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus said to them. “When all things are made new, the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne. Then you who have followed me will also sit ontwelve thrones. You will judge the  tribes of Israel.
I am Gabriel I serve God
Is it hard for a camel to go through the eye of a needle? It is even harder for someone who is rich to enter God’s kingdom!”
When Jesus entered Capernaum a Roman commander came to him He asked Jesus for help
Jesus replied, “They are plants that my Father in heaven has not planted. They will be pulled up by the roots.
Am I not free
They werent able to speak
If you live under the power of sin you will die
Someone may ask you Why are you doing this If so say The Lord needs it But he will send it back here soon
He asked them Whose picture is this And whose words
Ill pay it back I Paul am writing this with my own hand I wont even mention that you owe me your life
And they accepted them
Jesus replied The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will hand me over
You go to the feast I am not going up to this feast
It is written, ‘He was counted among those who had committed crimes.’ I tell you that what is written about me must come true. Yes, it is already coming true.”
Think about how the wild flowers grow They dont work or make clothing
Christ Jesus took hold of me so that I could reach that goal. So I keep pushing myself forward to reach it.
The disciples talked about this among themselves. They said, “He must be saying this because we didn’t bring any bread.”
But God has shown me that I should not say anyone is not pure and clean
When the people heard this it had a deep effect on them
Then the high priest stood up in front of them He asked Jesus Arent you going to answer What are these charges these men are bringing against you
Every day Jesus was teaching at the temple But the chief priests and the teachers of the law were trying to kill him So were the leaders among the people
It comes from a good sense of what is right and wrong.
I resign
At once the Holy Spirit gave me a vision.
And a saltwater spring cant produce fresh water either
As they sailed, Jesus fell asleep. A storm came down on the lake. It was so bad that the boat was about to sink. They were in great danger.
And A pig that is washed goes back to rolling in the mud
We are dying, but we continue to live.
There is only one Lawgiver and Judge He is the God who is able to save life or destroy it But who are you to judge your neighbor
The whole building is held together by him It rises to become a holy temple because it belongs to the Lord
He makes both us and you remain strong in the faith because we belong to Christ. He anointed us. He put his Spirit in our hearts and marked us as his own. We can now be sure that he will give us everything he promised us.
Can a grapevine produce figs
At that time the disciples came to Jesus They asked him Then who is the most important person in the kingdom of heaven
just like Melchizedek
So who was I to think that I could stand in Gods way
We can’t take anything out of it.
The disciples were amazed They asked What kind of man is this Even the winds and the waves obey him
So the men were sent down to Antioch
When he arrived, he was a great help to those who had become believers by God’s grace.
The Lord told him, “Go to the house of Judas on Straight Street. Ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying.
He used it to measure the city its gates and its walls
They aren’t connected anymore to the head, who is Christ. But the whole body grows from the head. The muscles and tendons hold the body together. And God causes it to grow.
The Lord has given each of us our own work to do.
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is a child of God. And everyone who loves the Father loves his children as well.
Some of your people follow the teaching of Balaam He taught Balak to lead the people of Israel into sin So they ate food that had been offered to statues of gods And they committed sexual sins
What the proverbs say about them is true. “A dog returns to where it has thrown up.” And, “A pig that is washed goes back to rolling in the mud.”
So were some women who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses. One was Mary Magdalene. Seven demons had come out of her.
they are choked by lifes worries riches and pleasures So they do not reach full growth
We pray this so that the name of our Lord Jesus will receive glory through what you have done. We also pray that you will receive glory through what he has done. We pray all these things in keeping with the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Jesus sent these  out with the following orders. “Do not go among the Gentiles,” he said. “Do not enter any town of the Samaritans.
Arphaxad was the son of Shem.
I became your father by serving Christ Jesus and telling you the good news.
The time for me to show who I really am isnt here yet
Then those who are in Judea should escape to the mountains
But the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus.
And you are clean But not all of you are
If God permits, we will go beyond those teachings and grow up.
We dont want Satan to outsmart us
So in my mind I am a slave to God’s law. But sin controls my desires.
The angel said to the women, “Don’t be afraid. I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified.
But by leaving they showed that none of them belonged to us.
The disciples returned. They told Jesus what they had done. Then he took them with him.
He said I tell you even in Israel I have not found anyone whose faith is so strong
Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters in Laodicea.
We are sending this letter to you the members of the church in Thessalonica You belong to God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ
Right away the boy’s father cried out, “I do believe! Help me overcome my unbelief!”
They don’t know where they are going.
They will be filled
A dinner was given at Bethany to honor Jesus
Jesus replied, “The time has come for the Son of Man to receive glory.
Some time later Paul spoke to Barnabas. “Let’s go back to all the towns where we preached the word of the Lord,” he said.
I am coming to see you Please dont make me be as bold as I expect to be toward some people
The first heaven and the first earth were completely gone
So his faith made him right with God
Then they returned to Galilee.
So it doesnt depend on what people want or what they do It depends on Gods mercy
Everyone in Jerusalem heard about this.
After all werent you cut from a wild olive tree
Those who have victory will receive all this from me.
Here are some commandments to think about. “Do not commit adultery.” “Do not commit murder.” “Do not steal.” “Do not want what belongs to others.”  These and all other commands are included in one command. Here’s what it is. “Love your neighbor as you love yourself.”
Not even the highest places or the lowest
Next I heard what sounded like a voice coming from among the four living creatures
Sometimes people spoke badly about you in front of others. Sometimes you were treated badly. At other times you stood side by side with people being treated like this.
The Jews grabbed Paul. They were about to kill him.
As it is there are many parts But there is only one body
They heard that the Lord had given Jesus the power to heal the sick
We didnt put on a mask to cover up any sinful desire
Those who are in Judea should then escape to the mountains Those in the city should get out Those in the country should not enter the city
I can talk for a bit
Others said He is Elijah
Jesus said to her You are right when you say you have no husband
He didn’t die. “He couldn’t be found, because God had taken him away.”
He gave in
I have a job for you.
The living Father sent me
We wanted to come to you. Again and again I, Paul, wanted to come. But Satan blocked our way.
He cried out at the top of his voice
It is the most important stone in the building.The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame.”
It must remain joined to the vine. In the same way, you can’t bear fruit unless you remain joined to me.
The Holy Spirit makes you one in every way So try your best to remain as one Let peace keep you together
Peter said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will put up three shelters. One will be for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
What he did made his faith complete.
Outside the city are those who are impure. These people include those who practice witchcraft. Outside are also those who commit sexual sins and murder. Outside are those who worship statues of gods. And outside is everyone who loves and does what is false.
They will act as if they were serving God.
God Judges Fairly
So you should try very hard to add goodness to your faith
We have been made right with God because of our faith Now we have peace with him because of our Lord Jesus Christ
And how about ships? They are very big. They are driven along by strong winds. But they are steered by a very small rudder.
Thomas was with them.
They measured how deep the water was They found that it was one hundred twenty feet deep A short time later they measured the water again This time it was nignity feet deep
“When he comes, he will explain everything to us.”
But they have no roots They believe for a while But when they are tested they fall away from the faith
Im speaking to the elders among you
Blind people receive sight Disabled people walk Those who have skin diseases are made clean Deaf people hear Those who are dead are raised to life And the good news is preached to those who are poor
It was not easy to sail along the coast Then we came to a place called Fair Havens It was near the town of Lasea
But dont think of them as an enemy Instead warn them as you would warn another believer
How terrible How terrible it is for you great city
He can’t be seen.
Then they will see your good deeds
Ask Abrham.
Jesus had slipped away into the crowd that was there.
“The Lord has given his word and made a promise.
Again I tell you, it is hard for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. But it is even harder for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.”
The Lamb is the one whose death was planned before the world was created.
None of you should look out just for your own good Each of you should also look out for the good of others
Who makes you different from anyone else What do you have that you did not receive And if you did receive it why do you brag as though you did not
They saw something that looked like fire in the shape of tongues.
Lord God who rules over all
So we should welcome people like them We should work together with them for the truth
But the body is not meant for sexual sins.
Do you want to be slaves to them all over again
The sting of death is sin. And the power of sin is the law.
Treat older women as if they were your mothers. Treat younger women as if they were your sisters. Be completely pure in the way you treat them.
They came out of the mouths of the dragon
Your service is the result of your love
Remember your leaders They spoke Gods word to you Think about the results of their way of life Copy their faith
Someone may ask you Why are you untying it If so say The Lord needs it
I will fight against those people with the sword that comes out of my mouth.
You will hear but never understand
“Don’t you see? Everything that enters the mouth goes into the stomach. Then it goes out of the body.
Im not writing because I hope you will do things like that for me
All the believers were together.
Then the men arrested Jesus and led him away. They took him into the high priest’s house. Peter followed from far away.
Jesus was aware of this. So he said to them, “Why are you bothering this woman? She has done a beautiful thing to me.
The number of men who ate was ,. Women and children also ate.
John’s disciples came and took his body and buried it. Then they went and told Jesus.
But the greatest of them is love.
Not at all!
You have joy even though you may have had to suffer for a little while
They chose a lie instead of the truth about God. They worshiped and served created things. They didn’t worship the Creator. But he is praised forever. Amen.
He was holding a little scroll It was lying open in his hand The angel put his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land
Dear friends
But the angel said to him, “Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard.
Some people may say evil things about your good conduct as believers in Christ
Do good to them.
Dont become slaves of human beings
Even this doesn’t satisfy him. So he refuses to welcome other believers.
Or think about this How can you enter a strong mans house and just take what the man owns You must first tie him up Then you can rob his house
And Jesus who makes people holy and the people he makes holy belong to the same family
What if you receive a message that is supposed to have come from us?
They tell lies about them They hate God They are rude and proud They brag They think of new ways to do evil They dont obey their parents
How were you less important than the other churches The only difference was that I didnt cause you any expense Forgive me for that wrong
The Father who sent me commanded me to say all that I have said.
Be completely gentle
When he had given thanks, he broke it. He said, “This is my body. It is given for you. Every time you eat it, do it in memory of me.”
But they aren’t. It’s only nine o’clock in the morning!
So keep watch You do not know on what day your Lord will come
Do you owe anything else to the government? Then pay it.
They came to Jesus and begged him
David himself says in the Book of Psalms,
All the green grass was burned up
Do not get any gold silver or copper to take with you in your belts
Will women be saved by having children
A large crowd of tax collectors and others were eating with them.
“Does this upset you?
Its heat will melt everything in them
Their worship doesn’t mean anything to me.
Jesus prayed while he lived on earth He made his appeal with sincere cries and tears He prayed to the God who could save him from death God answered Jesus because he truly honored God
Then none of you will become stubborn. You won’t be fooled by sin’s tricks.
In this way these Jews always increase their sins to the limit
Slaves obey your masters here on earth Respect them and honor them with a heart that is true Obey them just as you would obey Christ
He came to Jesus at night and said, “Rabbi,
He will remove sin from Jacob’s family.
I have fought the good fight.
Those who are under the power of sin can’t please God.
Remember how it was in the days of Noah. It will be the same when the Son of Man comes.
Some land drinks the rain that falls on it. It produces a crop that is useful to those who farm the land. That land receives God’s blessing.
The Ship Is Destroyed
Then you won’t trip over a stone.’ ”
You are worthy to receive glory and honor and power.
But their hearts are far away from me
What dies will be dressed with what does not die
I tell you God can rise up children for Abraham even from these stones
When this happened, their sicknesses were healed and evil spirits left them.
Each of the four living creatures had six wings. Each creature was covered all over with eyes. It had eyes even under its wings. Day and night, they never stop saying,
So be watchful, and control yourselves completely. In this way, put your hope in the grace that lies ahead. This grace will be brought to you when Jesus Christ returns.
Those other people are the ones he shows his mercy to. He made them to receive his glory.
“You’re out of your mind,” they said to her.
In your heart you are not sorry for your sins. You are storing up anger against yourself. The day of God’s anger is coming. Then his way of judging fairly will be shown.
The change of priestly system was made with a promise Others became priests without any promise
The pleasure you longed for has left you
Don’t you know that we will judge angels? Then we should be able to judge the things of this life even more!
Live as free people But dont use your freedom to cover up evil
He said,“Holy One, the way you judge is fair.
They said to Jesus Teacher this woman was caught sleeping with a man who was not her husband
The blood of Christ has made us right with God So we are even surer that Jesus will save us from Gods anger
He took Peter James and John along with him He began to be very upset and troubled
He went to a village called Ephraim.
Lazarus was among the people at the table with Jesus
Im being held in chains because of the good news So I would have liked to keep Onesimus with me And he could take your place in helping me
So what are you waiting for? Get up and call on his name. Be baptized. Have your sins washed away.’
Mary asked the angel
What is spiritual did not come first. What is earthly came first.
After Judas was gone Jesus spoke He said Now the Son of Man receives glory
I cant do anything to stop the truth I can only work for the truth
But build one another up every day. Do it as long as there is still time.
You sent me into the world In the same way I have sent them into the world
‘I know that you suffer and are poor. But you are rich! Some people say they are Jews but are not. I know that their words are evil. Their worship comes from Satan.
They might hear with their ears
All of you must obey those who rule over you There are no authorities except the ones God has chosen Those who now rule have been chosen by God
Jesus answered, “Aren’t there twelve hours of daylight? Anyone who walks during the day won’t trip and fall. They can see because of this world’s light.
Because of what the Son has done we have been set free Because of him all our sins have been forgiven
But since sexual sin is happening each man should sleep with his own wife
Make sure that no one pays back one wrong act with another Instead always try to do what is good for each other and for everyone else
Suppose someone teaches something different than I have taught. Suppose that person doesn’t agree with the true teaching of our Lord Jesus Christ. Suppose they don’t agree with godly teaching.
Live under the control of the Holy Spirit. If you do, you will think about what the Spirit wants.
But first let me go back and say goodbye to my family.”
everyone who loves the Father loves his children as well
In this way, these Jews always increase their sins to the limit.
God didn’t spare the natural branches. He won’t spare you either.
The twelve gates were made from twelve pearls. Each gate was made out of a single pearl. The main street of the city was made out of gold. It was gold as pure as glass that people can see through clearly.
They will be slaves and will be treated badly
“Abraham believed God.
Fall on us
Jesus saw that the man had answered wisely. He said to him, “You are not far from God’s kingdom.”
Jesus replied You give them something to eat
My new covenant will be different because they didn’t remain faithful to my old covenant.
He was already with the Father He has appeared to us
We didn’t put on a mask to cover up any sinful desire.
open the scroll?”
How terrible it will be for you Pharisees
The witnesses are the two olive trees and the two lampstands And they stand in front of the Lord of the earth
Now those things happened as examples for us. They are supposed to keep us from wanting evil things. The people of Israel wanted these evil things.
So he went to help him. He got even by killing the man.
Suppose no one raises from the dead. Then what will people do who are baptized for the dead? Suppose the dead are not raised at all. Then why are people baptized for them?
Jesus answered, “I was sent only to the people of Israel. They are like lost sheep.”
I promised to give you to only one husband That husband is Christ I wanted to be able to give you to him as if you were a pure virgin
They said to her
These people are like springs without water They are like mists driven by a storm The blackest darkness is reserved for them
You have been set free from sin. You have become slaves to right living.
Pray that this will not happen in winter
It promises help for the life you are now living and the life to come.
In the same way deacons must be worthy of respect
What Im about to tell you is true I wont drink wine with you again until the day I drink it in Gods kingdom
You want the gifts of the Spirit. So try to do your best in using gifts that build up the church.
But she didnt realize that it was Jesus
Twenty-four elders were sitting on them
She was a Greek, born in Syrian Phoenicia. She begged Jesus to drive the demon out of her daughter.
I never want to brag about anything except the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Through that cross the ways of the world have been crucified as far as I am concerned. And I have been crucified as far as the ways of the world are concerned.
He answered, “I have already told you.
Those who take part in it will become more and more ungodly.
We have opened our hearts wide to you
The disciples were afraid as they entered the cloud
The first handful of dough that is offered is holy. This makes all of the dough holy. If the root is holy, so are the branches.
I keep asking him to give you the wisdom and understanding that come from the Holy Spirit. I want you to know God better.
“Suppose you are offering your gift at the altar. And you remember that your brother or sister has something against you.
I pray to God that you won’t do anything wrong. I don’t pray so that people will see that I have passed the test. Instead, I pray this so that you will do what is right, even if it seems I have failed.
The people had gathered to watch this sight When they saw what happened they felt very sad Then they went away
They must pick up their cross every day and follow me
God is fair He will not forget what you have done
Do not be like them. Your Father knows what you need even before you ask him.
There is one more thing Have a guest room ready for me I hope I can return to all of you in answer to your prayers
we can be bold with God
They knew that Jesus had not gotten into it with his disciples
He is kind to people who are evil and are not thankful.
I had no idea how to look into such matters. So I asked Paul if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem. There he could be tried on these charges.
The Agaw saw what she was out of without singing
Instead, you are filled with sadness because I have said these things.
How was the seminar?
Also, the Father does not judge anyone. He has given the Son the task of judging.
You must love one another just as I have loved you
You will become pregnant and give birth to a son
But he is praised forever. Amen.
The disciples James and John saw this
He replied I dont know if he is a sinner or not
That is why I am on trial here today.’ ”
Suppose anyone thinks they are a prophet
He sent a man right away to bring John’s head. The man went to the prison and cut off John’s head.
All the gifts are produced by one and the same Spirit He gives gifts to each person just as he decides
But he said to them, “It is I. don’t be afraid.”
Who is able to do this work?
Death through Adam, Life Through Christ
The angel said Get up Take the child and his mother Go to the land of Israel The people who were trying to kill the child are dead
All this is from God. He brought us back to himself through Christ’s death on the cross. And he has given us the task of bringing others back to him through Christ.
The same thing happened to a third of the night.
That’s why some Jews grabbed me in the temple courtyard and tried to kill me.
He said to Peter Didnt I see you with Jesus in the garden
You will look for me
Speak to one another with psalms, hymns and songs from the Spirit. Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord.
They escaped being killed by swords
So he went to Jesus and begged him to come and heal his son The boy was close to death
The disciples were even more amazed They said to each other Then who can be saved
God gave us his Spirit. And the Spirit doesn’t make us weak and fearful. Instead, the Spirit gives us power and love. He helps us control ourselves.
We stayed there several days
What I say to you I say to everyone Watch
I’m concerned for those who are in Laodicea. I’m also concerned for everyone who has not met me in person.
Another says, “I follow Apollos.”
The two men took Jesus body They wrapped it in strips of linen cloth along with the spices That was the way the Jews buried people
So because of God’s mercy, we have worked to do. He has given it to us. And we don’t give up.
They went across the lake and landed at Gennesaret There they tied up the boat
When you sin the pay you get is death But God gives you the gift of eternal life Thats because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done
Scripture says When you are angry do not sin
The other disciple ran faster than Peter. He reached the tomb first.
Jesus Is Taken to the Sanhedrin
He has been a witness to the truth.
The tenth was made out of turquoise
Give thanks to God! He always leads us as if we were prisoners in Christ’s victory parade. Through us, God spreads the knowledge of Christ everywhere like perfume.
Tiberius Caesar had been ruling for fiftyen years.
Because you believed the good news, you are saved. But you must hold firmly to the message I preached to you.
But we long to be made completely holy because of our faith in Christ. Through the Holy Spirit we wait for this in hope.
I will raise it up again in three days
A new system was instituted that students over the age of twenty five could not be tested።
From the beginning, the devil was a murderer.
Who won?
The Spirit you received doesn’t make you slaves. Otherwise you would live in fear again. Instead, the Holy Spirit you received made you God’s adopted child. By the Spirit’s power we call God Abba. Abba means Father.
People worshiped the dragon, because he had given authority to the beast. They also worshiped the beast. They asked, “Who is like the beast? Who can make war against it?”
It is the people who must own and work for peace to come since the people who are affected by the crisis are still the people።
Finally, the woman died.
He slipped me a note.
They long for what their sinful eyes look at.
Jesus Is the Bread of Life
He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood. His name is the Word of God.
Nothing God created is hidden from him. His eyes see everything. He will hold us responsible for everything we do.
Through Christ, we can be sure of this before God.
Keep it
And whoever lives by believing in me will never die.
It was the time for prayer
Then Jesus and his disciples went on to another village
Fill it up.
Through him everyone who believes is set free from every sin Moses law could not make you right in Gods eyes
Here is what people who belong to this world do. They try to satisfy what their sinful desires want to do. They long for what their sinful eyes look at. They take pride in what they have and what they do. All of this comes from the world. None of it comes from the Father.
The chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus’ stories. They knew he was talking about them.
“Sir,” they said, “we remember something that liar said while he was still alive. He claimed, ‘After three days I will rise again.’
And why do you worry about clothes See how the wild flowers grow They dont work or make clothing
Anyone whose name was not written in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire.
Love one another.
Instead, put on the Lord Jesus Christ as if he were your clothing.
Then the disciples came to him. They asked, “Do you know that the Pharisees were angry when they heard this?”
While the members of the Sanhedrin were throwing stones at Stephen he prayed
Get up! Let us go! Here comes the one who is handing me over to them!”
Barabbas had been thrown into prison He had taken part in a struggle in the city against the authorities He had also committed murder
Then Peter said Look at us
But they arent Its only nine oclock in the morning
Paul said I know that you have been a judge over this nation for quite a few years
The flowers fall to the ground.
When he comes he will explain everything to us
There they got into a boat and headed across the lake toward Capernaum. By now it was dark. Jesus had not yet joined them.
Through his body on the cross Christ set aside the law with all its commands and rules He planned to create one new people out of Jews and Gentiles He wanted to make peace between them
There was a Pharisee named Nicodemus. He was one of the Jewish rulers.
We know that God does not listen to sinners He listens to the godly person who does what he wants them to do
He has remembered his holy covenant
Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, across from the temple. Peter, James, John and Andrew asked him a question in private.
Then a mighty angel picked up a huge rock. It was the size of a large millstone. He threw it into the sea.
Jesus had to go through Samaria.
Peter and John left. They found things just as Jesus had told them. So they prepared the Passover meal.
The Stories of the Mustard Seed and the Yeast
The Lamb broke open the third seal. Then I heard the third living creature say, “Come!” I looked, and there in front of me was a black horse! Its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand.
They did what he said.
Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia She stands for the present city of Jerusalem
If you really keep this law, you are doing what is right.
Then you will become holy
Lydda was near Joppa. The believers heard that Peter was in Lydda. So they sent two men to him. They begged him, “Please come at once!”
As soon as Peter heard that, he put his coat on. He had taken it off earlier. Then he jumped into the water.
was Johns baptism from heaven Or did it come from people
Now grace and truth come to us through Jesus Christ
Josek was the son of Joda
But Im talking about Christ and the church
We have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place.
I will never mourn
He is kind to people who are evil and are not thankful
Let the message about Christ live among you like a rich treasure.
They are like dirty spots and stains. They enjoy their sinful pleasures while they eat with you.
At the end of the fourty days, he was hungry.
Isnt he also the God of Gentiles
In secret they will bring in teachings that will destroy you They will even turn against the Lord and Master who died to pay for their sins
It is planted without honor.
Unless I go away, the Friend will not come to help you.
Then no one will be able to speak evil things against Gods word
Anyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces. But the stone will crush anyone it falls on.”
I am the First and the Last.
All of you must obey those who rule over you
I met your girlfriend
The next day as Jesus and his disciples were leaving Bethany, they were hungry.
Those who now rule have been chosen by God
But you are not ruled by the power of sin. Instead, the Holy Spirit rules over you. This is true if the Spirit of God lives in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to Christ.
“You don’t know anything at all!
But they continue to do those very things. They also approve of others who do them.
One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision Dont be afraid he said Keep on speaking Dont be silent
When Jesus went indoors, the blind men came to him. He asked them, “Do you believe that I can do this?”
Suppose I give thanks when I eat Then why should I be blamed for eating food I thank God for
He holds everything together.
He held seven stars in his right hand.
With your mouth you say what you believe. And so you are saved.
took his place at the table
Some time after this Jesus crossed over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee It is also called the Sea of Tiberias
Others replied, “No. He fools the people.”
Whose Son Is the Messiah?
Anyone who does not love does not know God
The next day they let the horsemen go on with him The soldiers returned to the fort
You are blind and foolish Which is more important Is it the gold Or is it the temple that makes the gold holy
But in person he doesn’t seem like much.
The next day Peter went with the three men. Some of the believers from Joppa went along.
Fight the good fight along with all other believers. Take hold of eternal life. You were chosen for it when you openly told others what you believe. Many witnesses heard you.
It is the same with faith. If it doesn’t cause us to do something, it’s dead.
He brings their blood as a sin offering But the bodies are burned outside the camp
-And when you stand praying forgive anyone you have anything against
A woman was there who had a sickness that made her bleed It had lasted for twelve years
I cant afford that
No. Instead, you will say, ‘Prepare my supper. Get yourself ready. Wait on me while I eat and drink. Then after that you can eat and drink.’
“Isn’t this Joseph’s son?” they asked.
They look but they dont really see
A young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window
Ashkolletsche is the main part of the game and singing, wrestling, are part of the game።
But be grown up in your thinking.
“Whoever is not with me is against me.
Jesus Sadness Over Jerusalem
The law you received was given by angels.
If you obey my commands you will remain in my love In the same way I have obeyed my Fathers commands and remain in his love
He took it literally
What God commanded was too much for them He said If even an animal touches the mountain it must be killed with stones
After drinking old wine no one wants the new
-So I will just have him whipped and let him go
He then breathed on them He said Receive the Holy Spirit
You heard me say I am going away And I am coming back to you If you loved me you would be glad I am going to the Father The Father is greater than I am
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples He said Whoever wants to be my disciple must say no to themselves They must pick up their cross and follow me
So Paul was called in. Tertullus began to bring the charges against Paul. He said to Felix, “We have enjoyed a long time of peace while you have been ruling.
While Jesus was still talking to the crowd, his mother and brothers stood outside. They wanted to speak to him.
“How terrible for you, teachers of the law and Pharisees! You pretenders! You give God a tenth of your spices, like mint, dill and cumin. But you have not practiced the more important things of the law, which are fairness, mercy and faithfulness. You should have practiced the last things without failing to do the first.
In fact it is just the opposite The parts of the body that seem to be weaker are the ones we cant do without
James and John came to Jesus They were the sons of Zebedee Teacher they said we would like to ask you for a favor
When Jesus saw that they had faith he spoke to the man He said Friend your sins are forgiven
Wait!
And I want you to have nothing to do with what is evil.
During our time on earth we groan. We long to put on our house in heaven as if it were clothing.
Paul said John baptized people calling them to turn away from their sins
We were locked up until this faith was made known
If anyone is led into sin, I burn on the inside.
And they spoke evil things against God because of the plague. That’s because the plague of hail was so terrible.
When a person is tempted they shouldnt say God is tempting me God cant be tempted by evil And he doesnt tempt anyone
Suppose the dead are not raised at all. Then why are people baptized for them?
So among Gods churches we brag about the fact that you dont give up easily
Be shepherds of God’s flock, the believers under your care. Watch over them, though not because you have to. Instead, do it because you want to. That’s what God wants you to do. Don’t do it because you want to get money in dishonest ways. Do it because you really want to serve.
David carried out Gods purpose while he lived Then he died He was buried with his people
He lives in light that no one can get close to.
He was seen by angels.
I brought him to your disciples But they couldnt heal him
One of the high priests slaves was a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off
Some of the people became followers of Paul and believed in Jesus.
Can anyone ever teach him?”
David himself calls him Lord So how can he be Davids son
he ran away naked He left his clothing behind
The next day Paul took the men with him. They all made themselves pure and “clean” in the usual way. Then Paul went to the temple. There he reported the date when the days of cleansing would end. At that time the proper offering would be made for each of them.
So even though I am away from you in body I am with you in spirit And I am glad to see that you are controlling yourselves I am happy that your faith in Christ is so strong
I have not yet received all these things I have not yet reached my goal
Jesus said to them, “How foolish you are! How long it takes you to believe all that the prophets said!
In the same way, teach the older women to lead a holy life. They must not tell lies about others. They must not let wine control them. Instead, they must teach what is good.
Brothers and sisters, we are asking you to warn certain people.
Heres how we know that we hold to the truth
“Not long after that, the younger son packed up all he had. Then he left for a country far away. There he wasted his money on wild living.
Thats how I prove that I am the author of all my letters
He who was sitting on the throne said, “I am making everything new!” Then he said, “Write this down. You can trust these words. They are true.”
I am the vine
It is written, “I believed, and so I have spoken.” (Psalm :) We have that same spirit of faith. So we also believe and speak.
He has remembered his holy covenant.
But you are a man of God.
Here is something to remember. The one who plants only a little will gather only a little. And the one who plants a lot will gather a lot.
your Father to my God and your God
Everyone said they didn’t do it. Then Peter said, “Master, the people are crowding and pushing against you.”
We know that what we used to be was nailed to the cross with him. That happened so our bodies that were ruled by sin would lose their power. So we are no longer slaves of sin.
Now, at just the right time, he has made his promise clear. He did this through the preaching that he trusted me with. God our Savior has commanded all these things.
All the believers were together
It comes from faith that is honest and true.
It was already evening, so they put them in prison until the next day.
Brothers and sisters, remain strong in the faith. Hold on to what we taught you. We passed our teachings on to you by what we preached and wrote.
It is completely destroyed
You were stubborn Thats why Moses wrote you this law Jesus replied
Some people who were there at that time told Jesus about certain Galileans. Pilate had mixed their blood with their sacrifices.
Whoever doesn’t carry their cross and follow me can’t be my disciple.
One day Jesus was praying in a certain place. When he finished, one of his disciples spoke to him. “Lord,” he said, “teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples.”
And anyone who has extra food should do the same.”
Demas has deserted me He has gone to Thessalonica He left me because he loved this world Crescens has gone to Galatia Titus has gone to Dalmatia
He will rule my people Israel like a shepherd.’ ”
Then what did you go out to see A prophet Yes I tell you and more than a prophet
I am absolutely sure that not even death or life can separate us from God’s love.
“Then the master told his servant, ‘Go out to the roads. Go out to the country lanes. Make the people come in. I want my house to be full.
Women should remain silent in church meetings They are not allowed to speak
You know that the first believers in Achaia were from the family of Stephanas They have spent all their time serving the Lords people Brothers and sisters I am asking you
Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love me. I have come here from God. I have not come on my own. God sent me.
Christ Jesus told the truth when he was a witness in front of Pontius Pilate. In the sight of God and Christ, I give you a command.
the power of sin is the law.
His speech bored me.
Jesus Heals a Man Who Had a Skin Disease
“The manager said to himself, ‘What will I do now? My master is taking away my job. I’m not strong enough to dig. And I’m too ashamed to beg.
There John Mark left them and returned to Jerusalem.
But on the third day God raised him from the dead. God allowed Jesus to be seen.
Suppose someone welcomes a prophet as a prophet. They will receive a prophet’s reward. And suppose someone welcomes a godly person as a godly person. They will receive a godly person’s reward.
but people loved darkness instead of light. They loved darkness because what they did was evil.
He did, and his hand had been made as good as new.
I will not leave you like children who don’t have parents. I will come to you.
Our message did not say Yes and No at the same time The message of Christ has always been Yes
So there is still a Sabbath rest for Gods people
“We are not throwing stones at you for any good work,” they replied. “We are stoning you for saying a very evil thing. You are only a man. But you claim to be God.”
That is a deep mystery.
Love him with all your strength and with all your mind
Also, pick up the shield of faith. With it you can put out all the flaming arrows of the evil one.
They are spirits of demons that perform signs. They go out to gather the kings of the whole world for battle. This battle will take place on the great day of the God who rules over all.
At last you are concerned about me again That makes me very happy We belong to the Lord
She has been a great help to many people including me
The other disciples followed in the boat. They were towing the net full of fish. The shore was only about one hundred yards away.
Herod was the ruler of Galilee
Some of your people follow the teaching of Balaam. He taught Balak to lead the people of Israel into sin. So they ate food that had been offered to statues of gods. And they committed sexual sins.
So here is what I tell you Every kind of sin and every evil word spoken against God will be forgiven But speaking evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven
There he and his family died.
The sun was allowed to burn people with fire.
I know the ones I have chosen.
Never again will they be thirsty.
Jesus answered It is written Worship the Lord your God
He sent them to Bethlehem He said Go and search carefully for the child As soon as you find him report it to me Then I can go and worship him too
I will write my laws on their minds
Jesus gave his life for our sins He set us free from this evil world That was what our God and Father wanted
Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses In the same way the teachers Im talking about oppose the truth Their minds are twisted As far as the faith is concerned God doesnt accept them
In a vision Saul has seen a man come and place his hands on him. That man’s name is Ananias. In the vision, Ananias placed his hands on Saul so he could see again.”
The old rule is set aside. It was weak and useless.
Peter was below in the courtyard. One of the high priest’s female servants came by.
Judas, son of James
He acted as my guide
Aren’t you supposed to judge those inside the church?
Jesus Eats at a Pharisees House
“Here is a problem that you have to be wise to understand.
The man runs away because he is a hired man He does not care about the sheep
Ask, and you will receive what you ask for.
Scripture says that God has put everything under his control
The same is true of those who always want more and more. People who do these things might as well worship statues of gods.
I looked into it and saw four-footed animals of the earth
Be like those who do well Anyone who does what is good belongs to God
It always protects.
Our troubles are small. They last only for a short time. But they are earning for us a glory that will last forever. It is greater than all our troubles.
The Lord loves you. That’s because God chose you as the first to be saved.
The horsemen arrived in Caesarea They gave the letter to the governor
You received Christ Jesus as Lord So keep on living your lives in him
Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven.
until I put your enemies
Teach them carefully.
They would rather have statues of gods than the glorious God who lives forever. Their statues of gods are made to look like people, birds, animals and reptiles.
John was with them as their helper
Our troubles are small They last only for a short time But they are earning for us a glory that will last forever It is greater than all our troubles
Is it my business to judge those outside the church Arent you supposed to judge those inside the church
On each side of the river stood the tree of life, bearing  crops of fruit.Its fruit was ripe every month.
But many will speak against him.
Moses lifted up the snake in the desert. In the same way, the Son of Man must also be lifted up.
“Don’t harm yourself!” Paul shouted. “We are all here!”
He said Suppose someone invites you to a wedding feast Do not take the place of honor A person more important than you may have been invited
He doesn’t want anyone to be destroyed. Instead, he wants all people to turn away from their sins.
They can never decide what to do
Another angel came and stood at the altar. He had a shallow gold cup for burning incense. He was given a lot of incense to offer on the golden altar. The altar was in front of the throne. With the incense he offered the prayers of all God’s people.
Then others will not know that you are fasting. Only your Father, who can’t be seen, will know it. Your Father will reward you, because he sees what you do secretly.
There in front of them his appearance was changed. His face shone like the sun. His clothes became as white as the light.
and you are all amazed
At harvest time he sent a slave to the renters They were supposed to give him some of the fruit of the vineyard But the renters beat the slave Then they sent him away with nothing
So the men lifted the lifeboat on board. Then they tied ropes under the ship itself to hold it together.
The other sat where his feet had been placed.
“If you are the Messiah,” they said, “tell us.”
God makes us right with himself.
And anyone who wants to be first must be the slave of everyone
You have won the battle over the evil one
Their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. But then he disappeared from their sight.
But since sexual sin is happening each man should sleep with his own wife And each woman should sleep with her own husband
The judges ordered that Paul and Silas be stripped and beaten with rods
Thats why I write these things before I come to you Then when I do come I wont have to be hard on you when I use my authority
Then I saw another angel coming up from the east. He brought the official seal of the living God.
You heavens be glad for this
I have soldiers who obey my orders.
Im afraid of spiders
I remember this map
God chose the things of this world that are common and looked down on God chose things considered unimportant to do away with things considered important
All these evil things come from inside a person and make them ‘unclean.’ ”
If they had belonged to us they would have remained with us
People did not escape when they said no to the one who warned them on earth
We know that what he says is true
Final Teachings
I tell you, that person will not get up. And he won’t give you bread just because he is your friend. But because you keep bothering him, he will surely get up. He will give you as much as you need.
Here is what the Holy Spirit was showing us. He was telling us that God had not yet clearly shown the way into the Most Holy Room. It would not be clearly shown as long as the first holy tent was still being used.
Then he spoke to them Anyone who welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me
Did I take advantage of you through any of the men I sent to you?
What we know now is not complete.
All the people in the synagogue were very angry when they heard that
In the same way, the Holy Spirit helps us when we are weak.
Fine linen stands for the right things that God’s holy people do.
So crowds of people came to hear him. They also came to be healed of their sicknesses.
Brothers and sisters, with all my heart I long for the people of Israel to be saved. I pray to God for them.
Some of the natural branches have been broken off You are a wild olive branch But you have been joined to the tree with the other branches Now you enjoy the life-giving sap of the olive tree root
In this way all Israel will be saved It is written
“We know he is our son,” the parents answered. “And we know he was born blind.
If we have food and clothing we will be happy with that
Jesus said A man from an important family went to a country far away He went there to be made king and then return home
What we know now is not complete. What we prophesy now is not perfect.
They will throw the evil people into the blazing furnace There the evil ones will weep and grind their teeth
You are worth more than many sparrows.
He will show the real reasons why people do what they do
Then what should we do the crowd asked
They were not able to trap him with what he had said there in front of all the people. Amazed by his answer, they became silent.
You were chosen for it when you openly told others what you believe Many witnesses heard you
Forgive me for that wrong
You will say Some branches were broken off so that I could be joined to the tree
The Pharisees loved money. They heard all that Jesus said and made fun of him.
That will make Israel jealous of them
The Lord is full of tender mercy and loving concern.
So pray that I will be bold as I preach the good news Thats what I should do
But they kept quiet. On the way, they had argued about which one of them was the most important person.
If not what did you go out to see
Let the person who does right keep on doing what is right
The blind man heard the crowd going by He asked what was happening
Judas Agrees to Hand Jesus Over
He made them an example of what is going to happen to ungodly people.
I can't wait for you.
Then they put a purple robe on him.
In the sixth month after Elizabeth had become pregnant, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee.
Stop wanting what others have,
but the workers are few
“Lord! Don’t hold this sin against them!”
When did we see you as a stranger and invite you in? When did we see you needing clothes and give them to you?
and wisdom
May Gods grace be with you all
We didnt bring anything into the world We cant take anything out of it
But they kept quiet On the way they had argued about which one of them was the most important person
Don’t pay back evil with evil.
He sent his Son to save the world through him
I beg you, don’t hurt me!”
People did not escape when they said no to the one who warned them on earth.
Felix knew all about the Way of Jesus So he put off the trial for the time being Lysias the commanding officer will come he said Then I will decide your case
Through his body on the cross, Christ set aside the law with all its commands and rules. He planned to create one new people out of Jews and Gentiles. He wanted to make peace between them.
He said, “The Son of Man must suffer many things.
With smooth talk and with words they dont mean they fool people who dont know any better
They threw stones at Paul. They thought he was dead, so they dragged him out of the city.
Jesus called out in a loud voice Father into your hands I commit my life
Do not stop him Jesus said For no one who does a miracle in my name can in the next moment say anything bad about me
All this time have you been thinking that Ive been speaking up for myself
Remain Strong in the Faith
So we thought it was best to be left by ourselves in Athens
Holy Father keep them safe by the power of your name It is the name you gave me
Your love has given me great joy. It has encouraged me.
Jesus entered the temple courtyard While he was teaching there the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him By what authority are you doing these things they asked Who gave you this authority
Paul said, “John baptized people, calling them to turn away from their sins.
And his word does not live in you. That’s because you do not believe the one he sent.
All the believers were agreed in heart and mind They didnt claim that anything they had was their own Instead they shared everything they owned
And Abraham is also the father of those who are circumcised and believe. So just being circumcised is not enough. Those who are circumcised must also follow the steps of our father Abraham. He had faith before he was circumcised.
Now you know what is holding back the man of sin. He is held back so that he can make his appearance at the right time.
Brothers and sisters we are asking you to warn certain people
Then the voice I had heard from heaven spoke to me again
He was holding a little scroll. It was lying open in his hand.
There it saysPeople of Israel
You could have him back not as a slave. Instead, he would be better than a slave.
Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit He said to them
But their minds were made stubborn To this day the same veil remains when the old covenant is read The veil has not been removed Only faith in Christ can take it away
Many people died because of the sin of that one man
“How terrible for you! You are like graves that are not marked. People walk over them without knowing it.”
The whole law is fulfilled by obeying this one command. “Love your neighbor as you love yourself.”
“Later I broke seven loaves for the four thousend. How many baskets of pieces did you pick up?”
In the same way you must give up everything you have Those of you who dont cannot be my disciple
“God has blessed you more than other women.
It said, “It is done!”
But I’ll give you what I do have.
I share Israel’s hope. That is why I am held with this chain. So I have asked to see you and talk with you.”
Everyone who has this kind of knowledge will be given more knowledge. In fact, they will have very much. If anyone doesn’t have this kind of knowledge, even what little they have will be taken away from them.
If anyone wants to argue about this we dont have any other practice And Gods churches dont either
I am the First and the Last.
From there they sailed to Cyprus.
Renew my heart. We know that Christ is the one who really renews it.
God said Be sure to make everything just like the pattern I showed you on the mountain
will be for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
“Am I a Jew?” Pilate replied. “Your own people and chief priests handed you over to me. What have you done?”
Christ has paid the price for you So use your bodies in a way that honors God
Jesus finished speaking Then a Pharisee invited him to eat with him So Jesus went in
“God made it hard for them to understand.
Right away he took some officers and soldiers with him. They ran down to the crowd.
“Amen!
You know that at one time you were unbelievers. You were somehow drawn away to worship statues of gods that couldn’t even speak.
My brothers and sisters, when Christ died you also died as far as the law is concerned.
As he left, he made them a promise. “If God wants me to,” he said, “I will come back.” Then he sailed from Ephesus.
We sent our brother Timothy to give you strength and hope in your faith
By doing that, some people have welcomed angels without knowing it.
Prophecy of Scripture Comes From God
My brother we both belong to the Lord So I wish I could receive some benefit from you Renew my heart We know that Christ is the one who really renews it
Again Jesus said What can we say Gods kingdom is like What story can we use to explain it
The apostles and the believers all through Judea heard that Gentiles had also received God’s word.
But everything should be done in a proper and orderly way.
Then someone came and said Look The men you put in jail are standing in the temple courtyard They are teaching the people
I wanted to be sure I wasnt running my race for any purpose
This year's drought has not even grown grass for cattle።
Then in a vision the angel carried me away to a desert
Those who serve Christ in this way are pleasing to God. They are pleasing to people too.
There were others who were made to suffer greatly. But they refused to be set free.
Thomas was one of the twelve disciples He was also called Didymus He was not with the other disciples when Jesus came
Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church The elders had trusted in the Lord
That’s because the one who is in you is powerful. He is more powerful than the one who is in the world.
Here is Gods witness about him David son of Jesse is a man dear to my heart he said David will do everything I want him to do
When they found out, they said, “Five loaves and two fish.”
But I still had no peace of mind. I couldn’t find my brother Titus there.
You think you can make foolish people wise You act like youre teaching little children You think that the law gives you all knowledge and truth
Jesus answered I did tell you
Suppose someone stays away from what is common. Then the Master will be able to use them for special purposes. They will be made holy. They will be ready to do any good work.
weep.
If all the parts were the same, how could there be a body?
Another angel came and stood at the altar. He had a shallow gold cup for burning incense. He was given a lot of incense to offer on the golden altar.
Love your neighbor as you love yourself.”
It was being let down from heaven by its four corners. It came down to where I was.
Those who prophesy can all take turns In that way everyone can be taught and be given hope
After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them. We will be taken up in the clouds. We will meet the Lord in the air. And we will be with him forever.
They said John the Baptist sent us to ask you
But Pilate answered, “You take him and crucify him. I myself find no basis for a charge against him.”
I came from the Father and entered the world.
And they have obeyed your word.
If Satan drives out Satan he fights against himself Then how can his kingdom stand
The smoke of their terrible suffering will rise for ever and ever.
People like that are not serving Christ our Lord They are serving only themselves With smooth talk and with words they dont mean they fool people who dont know any better
That’s what I’m working for. I work hard with all the strength of Christ. His strength works powerfully in me.
Twelve angels were at the gates, one at each of them.
But every spirit that doesnt agree with this does not belong to God You have heard that the spirit of the great enemy of Christ is coming Even now it is already in the world
Judas who had handed him over saw that Jesus had been sentenced to die He felt deep shame and sadness for what he had done So he returned the  silver coins to the chief priests and the elders
A commander was standing there as they stretched Paul out to be whipped.
“He is asking for you.”
They will believe things that demons will teach them
Am I now trying to get people to think well of me? Or do I want God to think well of me? Am I trying to please people? If I were, I would not be serving Christ.
Or suppose they think they have other gifts given by the Holy Spirit.
Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight. Your faith has healed you.”
Everyone says good things about Demetrius He lives in keeping with the truth We also say good things about him And you know that what we say is true
After that, Jesus appeared in a different form to two of them. This happened while they were walking out in the country.
She welcomed him into her home.
I am amazed. You are so quickly deserting the one who chose you. He chose you to live in the grace that Christ has provided. You are turning to a different “good news.”
Don’t you remember? When I was with you, I used to tell you these things.
Stay down!
The Holy Spirit clearly says that in the last days some people will leave the faith.
This problem requires wisdom
That was why the mans parents said He is an adult Ask him
All who had ships on the sea
Joseph went to Pilate and asked for Jesus body
Can a grapevine produce figs?
So be careful When you think you are standing firm you might fall
If you love those who love you what reward will you get Even the tax collectors do that
Don t give any part of yourself to serve sin
Where did Johns baptism come from Was it from heaven Or did it come from human authority
You became sad just as God wanted you to. So you were not hurt in any way by us.
So let us not be like the others. They are asleep. Instead, let us be wide awake and in full control of ourselves.
fruitful as you know our Lord Jesus Christ better.
Suppose a servant knows the masters wishes But the servant doesnt get ready and doesnt do what the master wants
I am a friend who suffers like you.
We are made right with God by putting our faith in Jesus Christ. This happens to all who believe. It is no different for the Jews than for the Gentiles.
So they went out and got into the boat
“You don’t want to leave also, do you?” Jesus asked the twelve disciples.
But someday we will see clearly We will see face to face
Abraham had faith. So he obeyed God. God called him to go to a place he would later receive as his own. So he went. He did it even though he didn’t know where he was going.
See how patient the farmer is for the fall and spring rains.
This makes us believe that you came from God.”
The Jews who killed the Lord Jesus
I dont like movies
You will be hated by everyone because of me. But anyone who remains strong in the faith will be saved.
Heli was the son of Matthat.
Jesus Is Buried
I will fight against those people with the sword that comes out of my mouth
He is the go-between for the new covenant
Mary stayed with Elizabeth about three months. Then she returned home.
I'll miss you so much.
Jesus said to them What Im about to tell you is true Tax collectors and prostitutes will enter the kingdom of God ahead of you
I have given them the glory you gave me. I did this so they would be one, just as we are one.
When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell at his feet.
Be careful to do what everyone thinks is right
By now it was after the Day of Atonement a day of fasting So Paul gave them a warning
I heard a loud voice from the throne. It said, “Look! God now makes his home with the people. He will live with them. They will be his people. And God himself will be with them and be their God.
But God raised him from the dead.
They could not buy or sell anything unless they had the mark.
I know that you don’t have much strength.
One of the tewelve disciples went to the chief priests His name was Judas Iscariot
I never want to brag about anything except the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ
But he has given proof of what he is like
Peter said to Jesus Rabbi it is good for us to be here Let us put up three shelters One will be for you one for Moses and one for Elijah
Because of this, many of the Berean Jews believed.
But they have no roots. So they last only a short time. They quickly fall away from the faith when trouble or suffering comes because of the message.
and there in front of me was a black horse!
John told them.
We dont know what we should pray for
I didnt see any of the other apostles I only saw James the Lords brother
Now you know what is holding back the man of sin.
So the chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus too
He will not break a bent twig.
Suppose we claim we are without sin Then we are fooling ourselves The truth is not in us
But hope that can be seen is no hope at all.
Your kingdom will be ruled by justice.
After all, weren’t you cut from a wild olive tree?
They were holding golden bowls full of incense. They stand for the prayers of Go  d’s people.
Come and eat the dead bodies of kings
You have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not
But thank God that with your whole heart you obeyed the teachings you were given!
The crowd came up and asked Pilate to do for them what he usually did.
But we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth Godliness will live there All this is in keeping with Gods promise
You have stored up riches in these last days.
We are sad, but we are always full of joy.
That is a deep mystery. But I’m talking about Christ and the church.
Jesus called a little child over to him He had the child stand among them
But you allow people to say that what might have been used to help their parents is Corban. Corban means A Gift Set Apart for God.
This is why we work and try so hard. It’s because we have put our hope in the living God.
Many Jews had come to Martha and Mary They had come to comfort them because their brother was dead
Share with the Lords people who are in need
It was cold. The slaves and officials stood around a fire. They had made it to keep warm.
How awful it will be in those days for pregnant women How awful for nursing mothers
The official heard that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea
Then the believers prayed They said Lord you know everyones heart
Some Pharisees who were with him heard him say this.
They will be shown mercy.
The benefit you gain leads to holy living.
Turn all your worries over to him. He cares about you.
If you live under the power of sin, you will die. But by the Spirit’s power you can put to death the sins you commit. Then you will live.
Out of their mouths came fire, smoke and sulfur.
Then the father realized what had happened That was the exact time Jesus had said to him Your son will live
Instead they must be kind to everyone
A widow who really needs help and is left all alone puts her hope in God
It is written, “May everyone who doesn’t continue to do everything written in the Book of the Law be under God’s curse.”
When Peter saw this, he said, “Fellow Israelites, why does this surprise you? Why do you stare at us? It’s not as if we’ve made this man walk by our own power or godliness.
Our dear friend Luke, the doctor, sends greetings. So does Demas.
And now I can see.”
So we can say boldly
So Jesus made a whip out of ropes. He chased all the sheep and cattle from the temple courtyard. He scattered the coins of the people exchanging money. And he turned over their tables.
I call God to be my witness. May he take my life if I’m lying.
Peter Heals a Beggar Who Can’t Walk
They wanted to hear what you hear.
“The owner’s slaves came to him. They said, ‘Sir, didn’t you plant good seed in your field? Then where did the weeds come from?’
God never said to an angel,
Then everyone left him and ran away.
Aren’t two sparrows sold for only a penny? But not one of them falls to the ground outside your Father’s care.
What will you do so we can see it and believe you?
The person who eats everything must not look down on the one who does not And the one who doesnt eat everything must not judge the person who does Thats because God has accepted them
They knew for certain that I came from you.
Wont they say you are out of your minds
“This is my blood of the covenant,” he said to them. “It is poured out for many.
Then the world will know that you sent
But there is a sin that does lead to death
God placed all things under Christ’s rule.
Yes, he is their God too.
Lofere Lofe has its own tradition and order።
But Saul grew more and more powerful. The Jews living in Damascus couldn’t believe what was happening. Saul proved to them that Jesus is the Messiah.
At that hour of the night, the jailer took Paul and Silas and washed their wounds.
If we don’t give up,we will also rule with him.
Pilate said. “Don’t you understand? I have the power to set you free or to nail you to a cross.”
May I ask why you sent for me
The number of men who believed grew to about five thousend
If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin.
But he did not go in.
Apollos watered it
Its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand.
When it grew the plants dried up because they had no water
Greet also the church that meets in the house of Priscilla and Aquila
I have made a fool of me
And the three of them agree
Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples
In fact everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be treated badly
And God’s grace was working powerfully in all of them.
Jesus spoke all these things to the crowd using stories He did not say anything to them without telling a story
Then they will pay no attention to Jewish stories that aren’t true. They won’t listen to the mere human commands of people who turn away from the truth.
They have shared in the Holy Spirit
She kept this up for many days.
Do everything without complaining or arguing.
They beat him up in front of the governor But Gallio didnt care at all
The apostles returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives It is just over half a mile from the city
Jesus did nothing until halfway through the feast
Im ready to be put in prison In fact Im ready to die in Jerusalem for the Lord Jesus
She did what she could She poured perfume on my body to prepare me to be buried
Then I heard a voice speaking to me Get up Peter the voice said Kill and eat
When Jesus stepped on shore, he was met by a man from the town. The man was controlled by demons.
They have tasted the good things of God’s word. They have tasted the powers of the age to come.
She was pregnant.
She earned a lot of money for her owners by doing this
So then he told them plainly Lazarus is dead
the door will be opened to the one who knocks
It is written,
“And do not say, ‘Who will go down into the grave?’ ”
“Teacher,” he said, “I have obeyed all those commandments since I was a boy.”
A woman came to Jesus with a special sealed jar of very expensive perfume She poured the perfume on his head while he was at the table
So those who depend on faith are blessed along with Abraham He was the man of faith
The person who does what is sinful belongs to the devil
Scripture says Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved
I am not lying
He was teaching in their synagogues, and everyone praised him.
Take care of the widows who really need help
There is no darkness in him at all
Later the religious leaders sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Jesus They wanted to trap him with his own words
But Christ came to be the high priest of the good things already here now
You have found out that they are liars.
Some of John’s disciples and a certain Jew began to argue. They argued about special washings to make people “clean.”
But when I preach the good news I cant brag I have to preach it How terrible it will be for me if I do not preach the good news
I am said Jesus And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One You will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven
Be willing to be a friend of people who aren’t considered important.
Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee They went to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go
But now they have no excuse for their sin.
Some Pharisees were trying to find fault with Jesus. They watched him closely. They wanted to see if he would heal the man on the Sabbath day.
They have closed their eyes
But God kept them from recognizing him.
As you know, we think that people who don’t give up are blessed. You have heard that Job was patient. And you have seen what the Lord finally did for him. The Lord is full of tender mercy and loving concern.
He answered Evil and unfaithful people ask for a sign But none will be given except the sign of the prophet Jonah
yet he opened my eyes
The elders who do the churchs work well are worth twice as much honor That is true in a special way of elders who preach and teach
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Laodicea.
The sun has one kind of glory.
These are not the things God’s holy people should do.
-If your foot causes you to sin cut it off It would be better to enter Gods kingdom with only one foot than to have two feet and be thrown into hell
They said that the widows of the Greek Jews were not being taken care of They werent getting their fair share of food each day
Those who sleep, sleep at night. Those who get drunk get drunk at night.
You are my friends if you do what I command
John was coming to the end of his work. ‘Who do you suppose I am?’ he said. ‘I am not the one you are looking for. But there is someone coming after me. I am not good enough to untie his sandals.’
Thats because it is what God says about his Son
Seven sons of Sceva were doing this. Sceva was a Jewish chief priest.
So write down what you have seen
“Is what these people are saying true?” he asked.
The elders who do the church’s work well are worth twice as much honor. That is true in a special way of elders who preach and teach.
The Lord opened her heart to accept Paul’s message.
The leaders could see the man who had been healed He was standing there with them So there was nothing they could say
Don’t we have the right to take a believing wife with us when we travel? The other apostles do. The Lord’s brothers do. Peter does.
The angel put his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land
Jesus said, “If you were blind, you would not be guilty of sin. But since you claim you can see, you remain guilty.
He made you lie to the Holy Spirit You have kept some of the money you received for the land
With her teaching she has led my servants into sexual sin She has tricked them into eating food offered to statues of gods
Scripture says, “Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw.”
But because you say so, I will let down the nets.”
The younger women must control themselves and be pure. They must take good care of their homes. They must be kind. They must follow the lead of their husbands. Then no one will be able to speak evil things against God’s word.
A third of the sea turned into blood.
In fact their minds and their sense of what is right and wrong are twisted
God is certainly fair! If he weren’t, how could he judge the world?
Judas bought a field with the payment he received for the evil thing he had done
Even now the one who gathers the crop is getting paid
He is a witness to what he has seen and heard. But no one accepts what he says.
That day will come on every person who lives on the whole earth.
Her son is a genius.
The light produces what is completely good, right and true.
The nations will walk by the light of the city.
God gave them the same gift he gave those of us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ.
If we die we die to honor the Lord
power
Your heart will be where your riches are.
Jesus told him You people will never believe unless you see signs and wonders
“Blessed are those who wash their robes. They will have the right to come to the tree of life. They will be allowed to go through the gates into the city.
Brothers and sisters
Paul reached the steps But then the mob became so wild that he had to be carried by the soldiers
So the Jewish leaders said to the man who had been healed, “It is the Sabbath day. The law does not allow you to carry your mat.”
When morning came; he called for his disciples to come to him.
We will spend a year there
Even though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not see him now, you believe in him. You are filled with a glorious joy that can’t be put into words.
None of you should sin against your brother or sister by doing that
But here is what I tell you. Do not even look at a woman in the wrong way. Anyone who does has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Dont put younger widows on that kind of list
When he landed at Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem. There he greeted the church. He then went down to Antioch.
than the woman who has a husband
They were bold when they spoke God’s word.
I’m told that a man is sleeping with his father’s wife.
All they need is for you to bring Paul to the Sanhedrin.”
He has gone into heaven. He is at God’s right hand.
But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head
So Jesus said again, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
But the man who doesnt marry her does a better thing
He says,
Faith or Obeying the Law
The Holy Spirit and the bride say Come And the person who hears should say Come Anyone who is thirsty should come Anyone who wants to take the free gift of the water of life should do so
Michael and his angels fought against the dragon
He is not the God of the dead. He is the God of the living. You have made a big mistake!”
“Be careful,” Jesus said to them. “Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
I will know that you work together as one person. I will know that you work to spread the teachings about the good news.
Paul Preaches in Athens
Tell them to be rich in doing good things
If you hear it, don’t be stubborn.
Then the disciples understood that Jesus was not telling them to watch out for the yeast used in bread. He was warning them against what the Pharisees and Sadducees taught.
Instead, we make it clear that we serve God in every way. We serve him by standing firm in troubles, hard times and suffering.
The first covenant had rules for worship. It also had a sacred tent on earth.
But prophecy will pass away.
Meanwhile, Saul continued to oppose the Lord’s followers. He said they would be put to death. He went to the high priest.
Whoever has nothing
For three days he was blind He didnt eat or drink anything
In fact when we were with you here is what we kept telling you We were telling you that our enemies would make us suffer As you know very well it has turned out that way
Right away something like scales fell from Saul’s eyes.
If any of you needs wisdom; you should ask God for it. He will give it to you.
She cried.
You gave him authority over all people. He gives eternal life to all those you have given him.
You also have people who follow the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Their hair was like women’s hair. Their teeth were like lions’ teeth.
She had suffered a great deal, even though she had gone to many doctors. She had spent all the money she had. But she was getting worse, not better.
Melchizedek has no father or mother. He has no family line. His days have no beginning. His life has no end. He remains a priest forever. In this way, he is like the Son of God.
They say no to Jesus Christ our only Lord and King
A certain rich man’s land produced a very large crop.
At the same time that Jesus did those signs many of the Jewish leaders believed in him
The Pharisee who had invited Jesus saw this.
“Who are you?” they asked.
And we can hardly wait for a Savior from there. He is the Lord Jesus Christ.
You should have praised me.
Now may a way be opened up for us to come to you.
Instead, train yourself to be godly.
Some Jews Believe and Some Don’t
Other seed fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and crowded out the plants. So the plants did not bear grain.
The next morning some Jews gathered secretly to make plans against Paul. They made a promise to themselves. They promised that they would not eat or drink anything until they killed him.
Do not live like people who aren’t wise. Live like people who are wise.
So then here is what I say about eating food sacrificed to statues of gods We know that a god made by human hands is really nothing at all in the world We know that there is only one God
They must look for peace and go after it.
Be quiet Jesus said firmly Come out of him
who is holy and true
They all knew that Timothys father was a Greek
You will be brought to governors and kings because of me You will be witnesses to them and to the Gentiles
He must control his mind and feelings. He must do what is right. He must be holy. He must control the desires of his body.
I am the apostle to the Gentiles
May more and more grace and peace be given to you
Teacher he said I beg you to look at my son
Now Herod, the ruler of Galilee, heard about everything that was going on. He was bewildered, because some were saying that John the Baptist had been raised from the dead.
Love one another deeply. Honor others more than yourselves.
Serug was the son of Reu
Boaz was the son of Salmon
Some of the Pharisees said,
But they were all afraid of him They didnt believe he was really one of Jesus followers
He serves in the sacred tent The Lord set up the true holy tent A mere human being did not set it up
So why arent you treating me the same way now Suppose you could have torn out your own eyes and given them to me Then you would have done it I am a witness to this
The ship was caught by the storm. We could not keep it sailing into the wind. So we gave up and were driven along by the wind.
It is for people who buy and sell slaves.
Now I am happy Im not happy because you were made sad
Jesus said to her, “You are right when you say you have no husband.
They lifted the sail at the front of the ship to the wind Then they headed for the beach
But Elijah was not sent to any of those widows.
Jesus performed many other signs in front of his disciples They are not written down in this book
Then nothing will stand in the way of your prayers.
Many will not believe the truth.
Wake up Strengthen what is left or it will die You have not done all that my God wants you to do
“Go,” he told him. “Wash in the Pool of Siloam.”
The Holy Spirit gave me a vision on the Lord’s Day.
Again they shouted,
her child was taken up to God and to his throne
When you believed he stamped you with an official mark That official mark is the Holy Spirit that he promised
Dont you remember When I was with you I used to tell you these things
Above all here is what you must understand No prophecy in Scripture ever came from a prophets own understanding of things
I pray for them. I am not praying for the world. I am praying for those you have given me, because they are yours.
Again he says
This is because all of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
We headed out to sea Aristarchus was with us He was a Macedonian from Thessalonica
You be the judge.
Masters, give your slaves what is right and fair.
One of them was named Cleopas He said to Jesus Are you the only person visiting Jerusalem who doesnt know Dont you know about the things that have happened there in the last few days
Be still
A large herd of pigs was feeding on the nearby hillside.
Semein was the son of Josek.
While God is watching warn them not to argue about words
The number of men who ate was ,. Women and children also ate.
And he will be my Son
I promise.
“Nazareth! Can anything good come from there?” Nathanael asked.
If people hated me and tried to hurt me they will do the same to you
Come Jesus said
God is the God who gives peace. May he make you holy through and through. May your whole spirit, soul and body be kept free from blame. May you be without blame from now until our Lord Jesus Christ comes.
No I train my body and bring it under control Then after I have preached to others I myself will not break the rules If I did break them I would fail to win the prize
The seed that fell on rocky places is like other people. They hear the message and at once receive it with joy.
Some people believe them.
Don’t you know what the law says?
But I know him.
Our message did not say “Yes” and “No” at the same time. The message of Christ has always been “Yes.”
In any case, I must keep going today and tomorrow and the next day. Certainly no prophet can die outside Jerusalem!
But the commandment gave sin an opportunity. Sin caused me to want all kinds of things that belong to others. A person can’t sin by breaking a law if that law doesn’t exist.
They arent saying a word to him
Then where did this man get all these things
I can speak Chinese
Jesus did not say a word. So his disciples came to him. They begged him, “Send her away. She keeps crying out after us.”
Hymenaeus and Philetus are two of those teachers.
All the other sins a person commits are outside the body
I do not mean that Gods word has failed Not everyone in the family line of Israel really belongs to Israel
“ ‘Who are you, Lord?’ I asked.
There are no authorities except the ones God has chosen
I’m sure I will be with you again. Then you will be able to boast in Christ Jesus even more because of me.
All the elders were there
We are disciples of Moses
“Why? What wrong has he done?” asked Pilate.
In the same way when you see these things happening you will know that Gods kingdom is near
They must turn away from evil
Before faith in Christ came; we were guarded by the law. We were locked up until this faith was made known.
They traveled as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns to meet us
The words I spoke to you were like milk, not like solid food. You weren’t ready for solid food yet. And you still aren’t ready for it.
Husbands, love your wives. Love them just as Christ loved the church. He gave himself up for her.
Barnabas was a good man. He was full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. Large numbers of people came to know the Lord.
This agrees with what the Lord has said When the Lord comes many of us will still be alive We tell you that we will certainly not go up before those who have died
Are we out of our minds as some people say If so it is because we want to serve God
And over all these good things put on love Love holds them all together perfectly as if they were one
Noah had faith. So he built an ark to save his family. He built it because of his great respect for God.
The storm quieted down.
“The second slave came to his master. He said, ‘Sir, your money has earned five times as much.’
My brothers and sisters, don’t be surprised if the world hates you.
But Paul’s nephew heard about this plan. So he went into the fort and told Paul.
“ ‘These people honor me by what they say.
And no one dared to ask him any more questions.
Nothing about him is false.
God will also keep you strong in faith to the very end Then you will be without blame on the day our Lord Jesus Christ returns
Again Jesus said, “May peace be with you!
That time it rained
But suppose a widow has children or grandchildren They should first learn to put their faith into practice They should care for their own family In that way they will pay back their parents and grandparents That pleases God
Be like those who do well. Anyone who does what is good belongs to God.
has become the most important stone of all
When Jesus came ashore, he saw a large crowd. He felt deep concern for them. He healed their sick people.
But worldly sadness brings death.
If I preach because I want to I get a reward If I preach because I have to Im only doing my duty
Don’t do anything only to get ahead. Don’t do it because you are proud. Instead, be humble. Value others more than yourselves.
Simon replied, “I suppose the one who owed the most money.
I know Abrham
Dear friends, let us love one another, because love comes from God. Everyone who loves has become a child of God and knows God.
They will not obey their parents.
Jannai was the son of Joseph
But if anyone obeys Gods word then that person truly loves God Here is how we know we belong to him
You call on a Father who judges each person’s work without favoring one over another.
Dear friends, this is now my second letter to you. I have written both of them as reminders. I want to encourage you to think in a way that is pure.
Is It Right to Pay the Royal Tax to Caesar?
Some techers of the law were sitting there. They were thinking,
By doing good you will put a stop to the talk of foolish people They dont know what they are saying
I will send Artemas or Tychicus to you. Then do your best to come to me at Nicopolis.
But whoever has been forgiven only alittle loves only a little.”
But we are citizens of heaven
We love because he loved us first.
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it. But whoever loses their life for me will find it.
Jesus saw the crowds So he went up on a mountainside and sat down His disciples came to him
Instead, go to the people of Israel. They are like sheep that have become lost.
Are we trying to make the Lord jealous?
After Jesus said this; he was taken up to heaven. The apostles watched until a cloud hid him from their sight.
If you do you will fulfill the law of Christ
Then Jesus told him, “Because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen me but still have believed.”
In fact, that is how you are living.
He put up with their behavior for about  years in the desert.
The voice said Set the four angels free who are held at the great river Euphrates
Every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices
But you have shown them to little children. Yes, Father. This is what you wanted to do.
Let some of your leaders come with me If the man has done anything wrong they can bring charges against him there
His disciples had gone into the town to buy food.
Live as free people. But don’t use your freedom to cover up evil.
They kept asking him questions.
The only thing they have coming to them is death.
It is the same with everyone who is born with the Spirit.”
He taught them many things using stories. In his teaching he said,
Then he took the children in his arms. He placed his hands on them to bless them.
Each person should test their own actions. Then they can take pride in themselves. They won’t be comparing themselves to someone else.
I am talking to you who are not Jews I am the apostle to the Gentiles So I take pride in the work I do for God and others
Another horse came out It was red like fire Its rider was given power to take peace from the earth He was given power to make people kill each other He was given a large sword
The mystery has now been made known through the writings of the prophets The eternal God commanded that it be made known God wanted all the Gentiles to obey him by trusting in him
Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about these things. So he said to them, “Are you asking one another what I meant? Didn’t you understand when I said, ‘In a little while, you will no longer see me. Then after a little while, you will see me’?
But not one of them was healed except Naaman the Syrian.”
Should I come to you to correct and punish you?
And he has sent me to announce the year when he will set his people free.”
If so, then your knowledge destroys that weak brother or sister for whom Christ died.
Then I heard how many people were marked with the seal. There were , from all the tribes of Israel.
You didnt want burnt offerings and sin offerings
The angel put his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land.
Well then you should have put my money in the bank When I returned I would have received it back with interest
Worship in a Way That Helps People Understand
May God our Father give you grace and peace.
I have a job for you
She stood behind Jesus and cried at his feet. And she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with her hair.
His speech moved us.
God did all this to prove in our own time that he does what is right
All of you must obey those who rule over you. There are no authorities except the ones God has chosen. Those who now rule have been chosen by God.
Anyone who does what is evil hasnt really seen or known God
I have seen my people beaten down in Egypt
When the hour came Jesus and his apostles took their places at the table
We are sad but we are always full of joy We are poor but we make many people rich We have nothing but we own everything
When Jesus said that, one of the officials nearby slapped him in the face. “Is this any way to answer the high priest?” he asked.
Did I take advantage of you through any of the men I sent to you
You must pay attention to it.
But Jesus hid himself
They trip and fall because they do not obey the message. That is also what God planned for them.
God judged the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah He burned them to ashes He made them an example of what is going to happen to ungodly people
He didnt even say these things when he argued with the devil about the body of Moses
Those who have skin diseases are made clean
They must not eat the meat of animals that have been choked to death
Then Jesus told them You are going to have the light just a little while longer
left us children and grandchildren
Her sins are piled up to heaven.
So he entered the house of God He and his men ate the holy bread Only priests were allowed to eat it
Jesus led his disciples out to the area near Bethany Then he lifted up his hands and blessed them
But if their plans come from God you wont be able to stop these men You will only find yourselves fighting against God
they will try to hurt others.’
They will be judged by all.
Every day they met together in the temple courtyard. They ate meals together in their homes. Their hearts were glad and sincere.
The nations were angry
Day after day every priest stands and does his special duties. He offers the same sacrifices again and again. But they can never take away sins.
What I wrote to you I wrote for a special reason When I came I didnt want to be troubled by those who should make me glad I was sure that all of you would share my joy
The mind ruled by the power of sin is at war with God. It does not obey God’s law. It can’t.
Reach out your hand and put it into my side
In fact that is going to happen. What does not last will be dressed with what lasts forever? What dies will be dressed with what does not die. Then what is written will come true. It says, “Death has been swallowed up. It has lost the battle.”
Teach slaves to obey their masters in everything they do
Then Joseph bought some linen cloth He took down the body and wrapped it in the linen He put it in a tomb cut out of rock Then he rolled a stone against the entrance to the tomb
“But what about you?” he asked. “Who do you say I am?”
And I will keep on doing what I’m doing. That will stop those who claim they have things to brag about. They think they have a chance to be considered equal with us.
The one at the Father’s side has shown us what God is like.
All of us get tripped up in many ways. Suppose someone is never wrong in what they say.
That’s true.
If the root is holy so are the branches
Anyone who believes in him will not die but will have eternal life.
But Jesus knew their evil plans. He said, “You pretenders! Why are you trying to trap me?
Can trouble
Jesus Raises a Widow’s Son From the Dead
A will is in effect only when somebody has died It never takes effect while the one who made it is still living
When they have finished speaking, the beast that comes up from the Abyss will attack them.
At all times, pray by the power of the Spirit. Pray all kinds of prayers.
After this I looked, and I saw the temple in heaven.
All this took place to bring about what the Lord had said would happen. He had said through the prophet,
“ ‘How terrible!
The Spirit understands all things. He understands even the deep things of God.
You will receive a rich welcome into the kingdom that lasts forever It is the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ
They have done it with the help of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven
The four living creatures said Amen And the elders fell down and worshiped
She recognized Peter’s voice. She was so excited that she ran back without opening the door. “Peter is at the door!” she exclaimed.
Jesus Teaches About Prayer
Then we will receive mercy We will find grace to help us when we need it
Six Warnings
Once more Jesus went away and prayed the same thing.
While Jesus was still speaking, some people came from the house of Jairus. He was the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” they said. “Why bother the teacher anymore?”
It was the last and most important day of the feast. Jesus stood up and spoke in a loud voice. He said, “Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink.
The angel answered
people were talking about all these things.
Then there will be one flock and one shepherd.
By your magic spell all the nations were led astray.
It never takes effect while the one who made it is still living.
Peter stayed in Joppa for some time. He stayed with Simon, a man who worked with leather.
Then they twisted thorns together to make a crown. They placed it on his head. They put a stick in his right hand. Then they fell on their knees in front of him and made fun of him. “We honor you, king of the Jews!” they said.
Jesus finished telling these stories. Then he moved on from there.
Glory and power belong to him for ever and ever Amen
You heard about Christ and were taught about life in him What you learned was the truth about Jesus
Large numbers of people believed and turned to the Lord
Your enemy the devil is like a roaring lion.
Do everything you can to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos Send them on their way See that they have everything they need
They only saw them and welcomed them from a long way off.
Anyone who speaks in other languages builds up only themselves.
You also are like living stones. As you come to Christ, you are being built into a house for worship. There you will be holy priests.
Or dont you know that the Lords people will judge the world
If you don’t, you have no life in you.
Her sins are piled up to heaven
They would have put on the rough clothing people wear when they’re sad. They would have sat down in ashes.
The jailer called out for some lights.
He provided the way for people to be made pure from sin
How were you less important than the other churches
Soon people were making trouble in the whole city.
Who is the liar It is anyone who says that Jesus is not the Christ
But each believer should live in whatever situation the Lord has given them Stay as you were when God chose you
He joined them at the table. Then he took bread and gave thanks. He broke it and began to give it to them.
So they told him We have seen the Lord
Slaves obey your masters here on earth Respect them and honor them with a heart that is true Obey them just as you would obey Christ
Suppose someone listens to the word but doesnt do what it says Then they are like a person who looks at their face in a mirror
You call on a Father who judges each persons work without favoring one over another
They were filled with wonder. They were amazed at what had happened to him.
I have other sheep that do not belong to this sheep pen. I must bring them in too. They also will listen to my voice. Then there will be one flock and one shepherd.
They will receive  times as much in this world They will have homes and families and fields But they will also be treated badly by others In the world to come they will live forever
“No, Lord! I will not!” Peter replied.
If they have sinned they will be forgiven
We will hear a blast from Gods trumpet
I have seen it happen
Im writing a command weve had from the beginning
I tell you, no one more important than John has ever been born.
Slaves obey your earthly masters in everything Dont do it just to please them when they are watching you Obey them with an honest heart Do it out of respect for the Lord
Instead, a church leader must welcome people into his home. He must love what is good. He must control his mind and feelings. He must do what is right. He must be holy. He must control the desires of his body.
Right away the disease left the man, and he was “clean.”
While I was with you, I kept on showing you the actions of a true apostle. These actions include signs, wonders and miracles.
But Satan blocked our way.
As far as the law is concerned, I am a Pharisee.
It was given authority over every tribe, people and nation, no matter what language they spoke.
The high priest carries the blood of animals into the Most Holy Room.
Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them were the ones who told the apostles.
So have mercy, just as your Father has mercy.
But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise
I want to preach it because I’m not ashamed of the good news. It is God’s power to save everyone who believes. It is meant first for the Jews. It is meant also for the Gentiles.
Im saying those things for your own good Im not trying to hold you back I want you to be free to live in a way that is right I want you to give yourselves completely to the Lord
So they went and saw where he was staying.
The law says, “Do not want what belongs to other people.”  If the law hadn’t said that, I would not have known what it was like to want what belongs to others.
Eat the bread or drink the cup of the Lord in the right way. Don’t do it in a way that isn’t worthy of him. If you do, you will be guilty. You’ll be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord.
You are a building that is built on the apostles and prophets They are the foundation Christ Jesus himself is the most important stone in the building
Everyone who asks will receive. The one who searches will find. And the door will be opened to the one who knocks.
I dont like English
Your brother or sister may be upset by what you eat If they are you are no longer acting as though you love them So dont destroy them by what you eat Remember that Christ died for them
Brothers and sisters I want you to know something about our people who lived long ago They were all led by the cloud They all walked through the Red Sea
“Do you speak Greek?” he replied.
But build one another up every day Do it as long as there is still time
Enosh was the son of Seth.
‘But here is something I hold against you. You have turned away from the love you had at first.
Men of Galilee they said why do you stand here looking at the sky
They are suggesting practices that are against Roman law. These are practices we can’t accept or take part in.”
He said I praise you Father You are Lord of heaven and earth
“A time is coming when you will be scattered and go to your own homes. In fact, that time is already here. You will leave me all alone. But I am not really alone. My Father is with me.
Those who use the things of the world should not become all wrapped up in them.
The believers studied what the apostles taught. They shared their lives together. They ate and prayed together.
Joseph was the son of Heli
Then Jesus said, “I am the bread of life.
But suppose your eyes can’t see well. Then your whole body will be full of darkness. If the light inside you is darkness, then it is very dark!
None of the people will escape.
I was circumcised on the eighth day
The governor read the letter He asked Paul where he was from
There was a rainbow above his head
So they went back and reported it.
The angel who talked with me had a gold measuring rod
“That is how
First I want you to pray for all people
I'll return at :.
From now on those who have a husband or wife should live as if they did not
Timothy stay there in Ephesus That is what I told you to do when I went into Macedonia I want you to command certain people not to teach things that arent true
“You call me ‘Teacher’ and ‘Lord.’ You are right. That is what I am.
A deacon must be faithful to his wife.
The Vine and the Branches
The blackest darkness is reserved for them.
We know the God who said, “I am the God who judges people.
What made you think of doing such a thing? You haven’t lied just to people. You’ve also lied to God.”
be glad for this!
The men traveling with Saul stood there
They were wondering about this Suddenly two men in clothes as bright as lightning stood beside them
One Sabbath day Jesus was walking through the grainfields His disciples began to break off some heads of grain
I praise you for being faithful in remembering me. I also praise you for staying true to the teachings of the past. You have stayed true to them, just as I gave them to you.
What if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him
“No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me brings them. Then I will raise them up on the last day.
Every mountain and hill will be made level.
They will make war against the Lamb. But the Lamb will have victory over them. That’s because he is the most powerful Lord of all and the greatest King of all. His appointed, chosen and faithful followers will be with him.”
Everyone who sins breaks the law. In fact, breaking the law is sin.
Thats the hope we had when we were saved But hope that can be seen is no hope at all Who hopes for what they already have
Say with your mouth Jesus is Lord
He asked for something to write on.
They didnt receive the things God had promised
Without holiness no one will see the Lord
It doesn’t come from the Holy Spirit.
Instead, they were serving you when they spoke about the things that you have now heard.
And wasnt that the opposite of how things should be done How much more easily will the natural branches be joined to their own olive tree
But it is God’s power to us who are being saved.
We have looked at him. Our hands have touched him.
When Jesus had finished praying, he left with his disciples. They crossed the Kidron Valley.
The devil has come down to youHe is very angry
You are suffering for his kingdom.
Simon Peter asked him Lord where are you going
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for something to use against Jesus. They wanted to put him to death.
But as they go on their way.
Then Jesus told a story A man had a fig tree he said It was growing in his vineyard When he went to look for fruit on it he didnt find any
Anyone who has been stealing must never steal again Instead they must work They must do something useful with their own hands Then they will have something to give to people in need
So he has done away with the first one.
When Jesus finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes. Then he returned to his place.
They planned to kill them by throwing stones at them.
He will rule all the nations with an iron scepter
When Peter saw this, he said, “Fellow Israelites, why does this surprise you?
The Greater Glory of the New Covenant
Cut it down! Why should it use up the soil?’
I saw you kissing Abrham
You are the body of Christ. Each one of you is a part of it.
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees sent temple guards to arrest him
Show proper respect to everyone
But whoever has doubts about what they eat is guilty if they eat Thats because their eating is not based on faith Everything that is not based on faith is sin
Instead, we will speak the truth in love. So we will grow up in every way to become the body of Christ. Christ is the head of the body.
Circumcision and uncircumcision arent worth anything to those who believe in Christ Jesus The only thing that really counts is faith that shows itself through love
No way
Those who are under the power of sin cant please God
So John’s messengers left. Then Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John. He said, “What did you go out into the desert to see? Tall grass waving in the wind?
Jesus said If you were blind you would not be guilty of sin
Suppose someone is worried that he is not acting with honor toward the virgin he has promised to marry. Suppose his desires are too strong, and he feels that he should marry her. He should do as he wants. He is not sinning. They should get married.
These things only lead to fights about ideas. They don’t help God’s work move forward. His work is done by faith.
They were not pleased with him at all.
Move over
Even with all our troubles, my joy has no limit.
People's representatives and the Speaker of the Federation Council entered Dredawa.
Jesus finished saying all these things. The crowds were amazed at his teaching.
So God lifted him up to the highest place
Melchizedek did not trace his family line from Levi.
I was found by those who were not trying to find me
He went into all the countryside around the Jordan River.
And what he has said is true.
Yet as Christ’s apostles, we could have used our authority over you.
I will speak about what Christ has done through me I wont try to speak about anything else He has been leading the Gentiles to obey God He has been doing this by what I have said and done
I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith.
Blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and dish. Then the outside will also be clean.
Philip found Nathanael and told him We have found the one whom Moses wrote about in the Law
While I was with you I kept on showing you the actions of a true apostle
They all rushed into the theater They dragged Gaius and Aristarchus along with them These two men had come with Paul from Macedonia
Each of us has one body with many parts And the parts do not all have the same purpose
The number of men who ate was about  Women and children also ate
The disciples went and did what Jesus told them to do
I am not going too far in my bragging I would be going too far if I hadnt come to where you live But I did get there with the good news about Christ
you yourselves will not lift one finger to help them.
No training seems pleasant at the time. In fact, it seems painful.
Then I will give you life as your crown of victory
They  were ordinary men with no training. This surprised the leaders.
About five thousend men were there.
Your young men will see visions
He went into all the countryside around the Jordan River
They show that what the law requires is written on their hearts
I would like to learn just one thing from you.
May God’s grace be with you all?
They wanted a heavenly one. So God is pleased when they call him their God.
Tell them not to speak evil things against anyone Remind them to live in peace They must consider the needs of others They must always be gentle toward everyone
Jesus was doing these things on the Sabbath day. So the Jewish leaders began to oppose him.
From Miletus, Paul sent for the elders of the church at Ephesus.
What Im about to tell you is true Jesus answered It will happen today in fact tonight Before the rooster crows twice you yourself will say three times that you dont know me
Jesus replied, “Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah! No mere human showed this to you. My Father in heaven showed it to you.
And suppose you lend money to those who can pay you back. Should anyone praise you for that?
In fact, when we were with you, here is what we kept telling you. We were telling you that our enemies would make us suffer.
I didn’t want to make you sad. I wanted to let you know that I love you very deeply.
But when someone stronger attacks, he is overpowered. The attacker takes away the armor the man had trusted in.
Jesus told them, “This very night you will all turn away because of me. It is written that the Lord said,
should I come in love and with a gentle spirit?
They were written also for us.
He was also chosen by the churches to go with us as we bring the offering We are in charge of it
“I’m going out to fish,” Simon Peter told them.
Be full of sorrow
So the people were stirred up The elders and the teachers of the law were stirred up too
It was added because of human sin. And it was supposed to control us until the promised Seed had come.
So he got up from the meal and took off his outer clothes. He wrapped a towel around his waist.
“Who is he, sir?” the man asked. “Tell me, so I can believe in him.”
You were running a good race. Who has kept you from obeying the truth?
Moses said The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me He will be one of your own people
You cant drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons too You cant have a part in both the Lords table and the table of demons
I'm old.
The God who chose you is holy. So you should be holy in all that you do.
While I was with you, I kept on showing you the actions of a true apostle.
In the same way, Christ was offered up once.
Brothers and sisters, we want you to know what happens to those who die. We don’t want you to mourn, as other people do. They mourn because they don’t have any hope.
The believers gathered around Paul. Then he got up and went back into the city.
He saw that the Jews who had come along with her were crying also
consider the needs of your wives.
They laughed at him. They knew she was dead.
What is our hope? What is our joy? When our Lord Jesus returns, what is the crown we will delight in?
Scripture says, “Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.”
Just as I told the Jews so I am telling you now
In public meetings he argued strongly against Jews who disagreed with him He proved from the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah
And they slapped him in the face.
Dont think that you are better than others
The man had an important position in charge of all the wealth of the Kandake
But before time began God planned that his wisdom would bring us heavenly glory
But we have been truly circumcised.
The Lord will heal them.
Is It Right to Pay the Royal Tax to Caesar
They kept asking him questions. So he stood up and said to them, “Has any one of you not sinned? Then you are the first to throw a stone at her.”
“Little flock, do not be afraid. Your Father has been pleased to give you the kingdom.
But we had to celebrate and be glad This brother of yours was dead And now he is alive again He was lost And now he is found
But if we say, ‘From people,’ all the people will throw stones at us and kill us. They believe that John was a prophet.”
They must not drink blood.
“I am the true vine.
“What happens when an evil spirit comes out of a person? It goes through dry areas looking for a place to rest.
In fact, it was just the opposite. When he was in Rome, he looked everywhere for me. At last he found me.
This is almost the de facto feminine freedom day ።
Evil people and pretenders will go from bad to worse. They will fool others, and others will fool them.
So God will fool them completely. Then they will believe the lie.
This is the disciple who is a witness about these things.
I will send the Friend to you from the Father He is the Spirit of truth who comes out from the Father
But you know all about my teaching. You know how I live and what I live for. You know about my faith and love. You know how patient I am. You know I haven’t given up.
Then the world will believe that you have sent me.
They are born because of what God does.
She thought he was the gardener. So she said, “Sir, did you carry him away? Tell me where you put him. Then I will go and get him.”
He said there would not be nearly enough food anywhere in the Roman world.
Their words have gone out from one end of the world to the other
And because I am with you in spirit I have already judged the man doing this I have judged him in the name of our Lord Jesus
“Then he asked the second one, ‘And how much do you owe?’
And he did the same with the fish
“You are right when you sentence me.
Do I say this only on human authority
Do not think that I came to bring peace to the earth I didnt come to bring peace I came to bring a sword
They were purchased from among human beings as a first offering to God and the Lamb
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me The bowls were filled with the seven last plagues
They only saw them and welcomed them from a long way off
But as it is they are holy
Many of them said He is controlled by a demon
And he has sent me to announce the year when he will set his people free.”
I have soldiers who obey my orders
It is unusual for anyone to die for a godly person. Maybe someone would be willing to die for a good person.
He must never drink wine or other such drinks
John answered them all,
Suppose someone is on the housetop on that day. And suppose what they own is inside the house. They should not go down to get what they own. No one in the field should go back for anything either.
Becoming Right with God by Faith
He came over to us Then he took Pauls belt and tied his own hands and feet with it
When I was a child I talked like a child
They will be ready to do any good work
In my mouth it tasted as sweet as honey
It is planted as an earthly body.
I will speak to these people
Do this because Scripture says,
He is coming with Onesimus our faithful and dear brother He is one of you
Then the law that joins her to him no longer applies.
From there we sailed to Rhenium.
These liars said, “This fellow never stops speaking against this holy place. He also speaks against the law.
He was chosen before God created the world. But he came into the world for your sake in these last days.
The kings of the earth took part in her evil ways. The people living on earth were drunk with the wine of her terrible sins.”
At the merchant however it was understood that the grain required by the increase of two bucks was one that could be soldered according to the persons ability ።
All of you are children of the light.
Do you see all these things Jesus asked What Im about to tell you is true Not one stone here will be left on top of another Every stone will be thrown down
The authority of his Messiah has come
After all no one ever hated their own body
He was circumcised as a sign of the covenant God had made with him. It showed that his faith had made him right with God before he was circumcised. So Abraham is the father of all believers who have not been circumcised. God accepts their faith. So their faith makes them right with him.
He is praying
“But I was born a citizen,” Paul replied.
Seven Angels With Seven Plagues
The Israelites Who Are Faithful
He and everyone who lived with him were filled with joy They had become believers in God
But God gave you knew life together with Christ.
Christ has paid the price for you. So use your bodies in a way that honors God.
The governor motioned for Paul to speak. Paul said, “I know that you have been a judge over this nation for quite a few years. So I am glad to explain my actions to you.
Jesus at the Home of Martha and Mary
I will make you happy.
Then Jesus told a story. “A man had a fig tree,” he said. “It was growing in his vineyard. When he went to look for fruit on it, he didn’t find any.
Eat well.”
At once they left their nets and followed him
The Jews said to one another Where does this man plan to go Does he think we cant find him
Some people may not welcome you. If they don’t, leave their town and shake the dust off your feet. This will be a witness against the people living there.”
Liangim who had been squeezed out of the sixity exams he took from two thousend on eup to two thousend  two did not achieve the feat to attend university።
He makes the whole body grow and build itself up in love. Under the control of Christ, each part of the body does its work. It supports the other parts. In that way, the body is joined and held together.
Others make us suffer But God does not desert us
Those who have not shown mercy will not receive mercy when they are judged.
They will be made holy.
I didnt do anything
So you have filled me with joy
And after you have done everything you can you will still be standing
We received grace because of what Jesus did He made us apostles to the Gentiles We must invite all of them to obey God by trusting in Jesus We do this to bring glory to him
We hear that some people among you dont want to work and are making trouble They arent really busy Instead they are bothering others
After three months we headed out to sea. We sailed in a ship from Alexandria that had stayed at the island during the winter. On the front of the ship the figures of twin gods were carved. Their names were Castor and Pollux.
Yes I tell you be afraid of him
Now listen, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city. We will spend a year there. We will buy and sell and make money.”
May more and more mercy
This is apparently why the Ethiopian Maker and Employer Institute consistently proposes to the government the question of whether workers' taxes will be reduced።
But here is what I tell you. Do not fight against an evil person. Suppose someone slaps you on your right cheek. Turn your other cheek to them also.
But the Pharisees didnt understand what he was telling them
But there are sins that do not lead to death
Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping Simon he said to Peter are you asleep Couldnt you keep watch for one hour
It will be pressed down, shaken together, and running over.
“But our people refused to obey Moses. They would not accept him. In their hearts, they wished they were back in Egypt.
Jesus Feeds Five Thousand
The Father lives in me. He is the one who is doing his work.
Your faith will be tested You know that when this happens it will produce in you the strength to continue
She said this because Jews dont have anything to do with Samaritans
No one will attack you and harm you.
the Sadducees came up to the apostles
Jesus and Beelzebul
One day we were going to the place of prayer On the way we were met by a female slave She had a spirit that helped her tell people what was going to happen
I am an electrician
Then we will not drift away from it.
When these desires are allowed to remain they lead to sin And when sin is allowed to remain and grow it leads to death
So Pilate asked Jesus Are you the king of the Jews
Then the evil spirit goes and takes with it seven other spirits more evil than itself. They go in and live there. That person is worse off than before. That is how it will be with the evil people of today.”
Keep us from falling into sin when we are tempted
One day Jesus was standing by the Sea of Galilee. The people crowded around him and listened to the word of God.
Then Herod went from Judea to Caesarea and stayed there.
The voice spoke to him a second time It said Do not say anything is not pure that God has made clean
should we look for someone else
Moses’ parents had faith. So they hid him for three months after he was born.
But when the Spirit of truth comes he will guide you into all the truth
So turn away from your sins! If you don’t, I will come to you soon. I will fight against those people with the sword that comes out of my mouth.
I won’t spare any of the others either.
I can't tell you now.
On that cross, Christ put to death their hatred toward one another.
In fact, you even put up with anyone who makes you a slave or uses you. You put up with those who take advantage of you. You put up with those who claim to be better than you. You put up with those who slap you in the face.
Blessed are those who are humble.
All the people of Athens spent their time talking about and listening to the latest ideas People from other lands who lived there did the same
Her owners realized that their hope of making money was gone So they grabbed Paul and Silas They dragged them into the market place to face the authorities
They think that I live the way the people of this world live.
Jesus came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives. There the whole crowd of disciples began to praise God with joy. In loud voices they praised him for all the miracles they had seen. They shouted,
Make room for us in your hearts We havent done anything wrong to anyone We havent caused anyone to sin We havent taken advantage of anyone
It comes from the devil.
But you, dear friends, build yourselves up in your most holy faith. Let the Holy Spirit guide and help you when you pray.
It is written about me in the book
But others asked, “How can a sinner do such signs?”
Once Jesus and those who were with him were walking along the road. A man said to Jesus, “I will follow you no matter where you go.”
They came to John and here is what they said to him. “Rabbi, that man who was with you on the other side of the Jordan River is baptizing people.
After Jesus said this he was taken up to heaven
Now remain in my love.
The message of the cross seems foolish to those who are lost and dying.
You know the grace shown by our Lord Jesus Christ
Your eye is like a lamp for your body. Suppose your eyes are healthy. Then your whole body also is full of light. But suppose your eyes can’t see well. Then your body also is full of darkness.
Are they serving Christ? I am serving him even more.
So the Pharisees did not agree with one another.
Dont let anyone trick you in any way
You guys looked mad.
is the Lord God who rules over all
Jesus had to go through Samaria
When they looked up, they saw no one except Jesus.
They must follow the lead of those who are in authority as the law says
While he was still on his way home his slaves met him They gave him the news that his boy was living
I accepted the offer
We were all baptized by one Holy Spirit
That is true in a special way of elders who preach and teach
The day after that we crossed over to Samos.
Without faith it is impossible to please God Those who come to God must believe that he exists And they must believe that he rewards those who look to him
Honor them as those who will share with you the gracious gift of life.
Those clothes are made out of goat’s hair.
Peoples representatives and the Speaker of the Federation Council entered Dredawa
Say no to every kind of evil
And if you did receive it why do you brag as though you did not
We had battles on the outside and fears on the inside
Again and again I Paul wanted to come
Don‘t forget to do well. Don’t forget to share with others.
His days have no beginning.
Lord is it you Peter asked If it is tell me to come to you on the water
When evening came, Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s go over to the other side of the lake.”
but Christ lives in me.
Thats why we believe that what we see was not made out of what could be seen
The four living creatures said
God will judge those outside. Scripture says, “Get rid of that evil person!”
Fallen!
There the devil tempted him for fourty days. Jesus ate nothing during that time. At the end of the fourty days, he was hungry.
The voices of brides and grooms
There some people brought a man to Jesus. The man was deaf and could hardly speak. They begged Jesus to place his hand on the man.
But Peter got up and ran to the tomb. He bent over and saw the strips of linen lying by themselves. Then he went away, wondering what had happened.
When the wine was gone,
I’ve given her time to turn away from her sinful ways. But she doesn’t want to.
He approached the town gate. Just then, a dead person was being carried out.
Suppose someone sees a brother or sister in need and is able to help them. And suppose that person doesn’t take pity on these needy people. Then how can the love of God be in that person?
But even good works that are hard to see cant stay hidden forever
And anyone making a promise in the name of heaven makes a promise in the name of God’s throne and the one who sits on it.
So she came there with a special jar of perfume
But the greatest of them is love.
“Aren’t you the Egyptian who turned some of our people against their leaders? Didn’t you lead , terrorists out into the desert some time ago?”
No one can enter Gods kingdom unless they are born with water and the Holy Spirit
Keep far away from sexual sins. All the other sins a person commits are outside the body. But sexual sins are sins against their own body.
Then Jesus told them a story.
Don’t you know that people who do wrong will not receive God’s kingdom? Don’t be fooled. Those who commit sexual sins will not receive the kingdom. Neither will those who worship statues of gods or commit adultery. Neither will men who sleep with other men.
Instead you should say If it pleases the Lord we will live and do this or that
We know that we are children of God.
“ ‘An enemy did this,’ he replied.
Have your roots in him. Build yourselves up in him. Grow strong in what you believe, just as you were taught. Be more thankful than ever before.
The law brings Gods anger Where there is no law the law cant be broken
When the crowd and the city officials heard this they became very upset
But the Jews in Thessalonica found out that Paul was preaching God’s word in Berea. So some of them went there too. They stirred up the crowds and got them all worked up.
I will not let that person be hurt at all by the second death.’
They mourned deeply for him.
Is it showing mercy Then do it cheerfully
The good news shows God’s power to make people right with himself.
In peace, not in war, there is no country that is effective.
He asked them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you became believers?”
The apostles gathered around Jesus They told him all they had done and taught
When you take another believer to court, you have lost the battle already. Why not be treated wrongly? Why not be cheated?
Many will not believe the truth. They will take pleasure in evil. They will be judged.
The seed on the path stands for God’s message in the hearts of those who hear. But then the devil comes.
He has a nice income
Your old men will have dreams
By that time it was late in the day His disciples came to him There is nothing here they said Its already very late
Titus is my helper. He and I work together among you. Our brothers are messengers from the churches. They honor Christ.
Then he said to her, “Dear woman, your faith has healed you.
They had come from every village of Galilee and from Judea and Jerusalem.
So the one sitting on the cloud swung his blade over the earth
Dont fail to use the gift the Holy Spirit gave you He gave it to you through a prophecy from God It was given when the elders placed their hands on you
But now you have returned to the Shepherd
They have to earn the food they eat
Some Jews had been comforting Mary in the house. They noticed how quickly she got up and went out. So they followed her. They thought she was going to the tomb to mourn there.
Do not love the world or anything in it If anyone loves the world love for the Father is not in them
It's true.
Five of them were foolish Five were wise
On his way home he was sitting in his chariot. He was reading the Book of Isaiah the prophet.
He is as tall as her
In those days, Caesar Augustus made a law. It required that a list be made of everyone in the whole Roman world.
You brag about the law But when you break it you rob God of his honor
Jesus replied, “I will also ask you one question. If you answer me, I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things.
Its like a man going away He leaves his house and puts his servants in charge Each one is given a task to do He tells the one at the door to keep watch
The sun had stopped shining. The temple curtain was torn in two.
He also realized that Sarah was too old to have children.
Their authority is like the authority Ive received from my Father
An elder must be without blame
Then he returned to the disciples. He said to them, “Are you still sleeping and resting? Look! The hour has come. The Son of Man is about to be handed over to sinners.
These people honor me by what they say But their hearts are far away from me
We do it to warn you But here is what you can be sure of Gods kingdom has come near
“What if someone causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin? If they do, it would be better for them to have a large millstone hung around their neck and be drowned at the bottom of the sea.
The person who does what is sinful belongs to the devil Thats because the devil has been sinning from the beginning But the Son of God came to destroy the devils work
Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery Also the man who marries a divorced woman commits adultery
Many people who live on the earth will worship the beast They are the ones whose names are not written in the Lambs book of life The Lamb is the one whose death was planned before the world was created
think about the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord
The law came four hundred thirty years after the promise.
But Christ really has been raised from the dead He is the first of all those who will rise from the dead
I have told you these things many times before Now I tell you again with tears in my eyes
Then everyone will see how you are coming along
They must be worthy of trust in everything.
So Peter got out of the boat. He walked on the water toward Jesus.
Instead your beauty comes from inside you It is the beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit Beauty like this doesnt fade away God places great value on it
Then he said Here I am I have come to do what you want He did away with the shadow of the good things that were coming He did it to put in place the good things themselves
As soon as Judas had taken the bread he went out
“Sit at my right hand
The water of the flood is a picture. It is a picture of the baptism that now saves you too. This baptism has nothing to do with removing dirt from your body. Instead, it promises God that you will keep a clear sense of right and wrong. This baptism saves you by the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead.
Jesus left that place and went into the area of Judea and across the Jordan River Again crowds of people came to him As usual he taught them
“Teacher,” he said, “tell my brother to divide the family property with me.”
He will increase the results of your good works
Some were sawed in two Some were killed by swords
His life was cut off from the earth.”
There he spent some time with them And he baptized people there
leading a holy life in a proper way
Have nothing to do with wild parties, and don’t get drunk.
In the name of the Lord Jesus we ask and beg you to do it more and more.
News about him spread all over Syria. People brought to him all who were ill with different kinds of sicknesses. Some were suffering great pain. Others were controlled by demons. Some were shaking wildly. Others couldn’t move at all. And Jesus healed all of them.
So be watchful and control yourselves.
They wrote out the charge against him
So also we are many persons But in Christ we are one body
Follow the way of love.
But we do it to get a crown that will last forever.
“When you pray, do not be like those who only pretend to be holy. They love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners. They want to be seen by other people. What I’m about to tell you is true. They have received their complete reward.
the end result is eternal life.
There are also heavenly bodies as well as earthly bodies
Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul
He called the  disciples to him. Then he began to send them out two by two. He gave them authority to drive out evil spirits.
Who is the liar It is anyone who says that Jesus is not the Christ
He sighed deeply He said Why do you people ask for a sign What Im about to tell you is true No sign will be given to you
I am from the tribe of Benjamin
Your eye is like a lamp for your body. Suppose your eyes are healthy.
It separates people into their own little groups
Love Fulfills the Law
“Do you understand what I have done for you?”
Who serves as a soldier but doesnt get paid Who plants a vineyard but doesnt eat any of its grapes Who takes care of a flock but doesnt drink any of the milk
I hope you will discover that I havent failed the test
All of us were baptized into Christ Jesus. Don’t you know that we were baptized into his death?
It is written,
Wives follow the lead of your own husbands Suppose some of them dont believe Gods word Then let them be won to Christ without words by seeing how their wives behave
The Spirit is in you, and you have received the Spirit from God.
The foolish ones took their lamps but didn’t take any olive oil with them.
When they arrived they went upstairs to the room where they were staying Here is a list of those who were there
And to each kind of seed he gives its own body.
The beast who used to exist and now does not is an eighth king He belongs to the other seven He will be destroyed
The believers studied what the apostles taught. They shared their lives together. They ate and prayed together.
I have told you these things many times before Now I tell you again with tears in my eyes Many people live like enemies of the cross of Christ
So speaking in other languages is a sign for those who dont believe It is not a sign for those who do believe But prophecy is not for those who dont believe
Love is the purpose of my command. Love comes from a pure heart. It comes from a good sense of what is right and wrong. It comes from faith that is honest and true.
At that time people will see the Son of Man coming in clouds He will come with great power and glory
He's afraid of dogs.
There he stayed for three months He was just about to sail for Syria
rich or poor,
They were saying Its true The Lord has risen He has appeared to Simon
After that, have nothing to do with them.
If that were not the case your children would not be pure and clean
Here is what is written in the Law of Moses Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw
I am willing to do it he said Be clean Right away the disease left him
A young man was following Jesus The man was wearing nothing but a piece of linen cloth When the crowd grabbed him
I spoke in private to those who are respected as leaders.
He has poor eyesight
I saw in heaven another great and wonderful sign
Jesus answered I told you I am he
“Aeneas,” Peter said to him, “Jesus Christ heals you. Get up! Roll up your mat!” So Aeneas got up right away.
Warnings From Israels History
“You do not know me or my Father,” Jesus replied. “If you knew me, you would know my Father also.”
Just then a man in their synagogue cried out. He was controlled by an evil spirit.
Jesus answered, “How can the guests of the groom be sad while he is with them? The time will come when the groom will be taken away from them. Then they will fast.
Sitting on the cloud was one who looked “like a son of man.”
The royal law is found in Scripture. It says, “Love your neighbor as you love yourself.” If you really keep this law, you are doing what is right.
Don ‘t give any part of yourself to serve sin.
They begged him to let those who were sick just touch the edge of his clothes And all who touched his clothes were healed
As soon as it was night, the believers sent Paul and Silas away to Berea.
Faith is being sure of what we hope for. It is being sure of what we do not see.
Try hard to be holy
Now we can see that you know everything. You don’t even need anyone to ask you questions.
Every day I was with you. I taught in the temple courtyard, and you didn’t arrest me. But the Scriptures must come true.”
Then Gods temple in heaven was opened
The heavenly bodies will be shaken
So we strongly command people like that to settle down.
Then I will go to the one who sent me
May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
In my opinion, she is happier if she stays single.
And they still tame them
They will see the smoke rising as Babylon burns They will ask Was there ever a city like this great city
Wisdom like this doesnt come down from heaven It belongs to the earth
They do it for only one reason They dont want to suffer by being connected with the cross of Christ
just as in all the churches of the Lords people
It is written Do not speak evil about the ruler of your people
And anyone making a promise in the name of the temple makes a promise in the name of it and the one who lives in it.
This happened three times. Right away the sheet was taken back up to heaven.
Heavenly bodies have one kind of glory.
People who serve in the temple get their food from the temple. Don’t you know this? People who serve at the altar eat from what is offered on the altar. Don’t you know this?
So let us make every effort to enjoy that rest Then no one will die by disobeying as they did
As the king began to do it a man who owed him ten thousend bags of gold was brought to him
They want to be teachers of the law. And they are very sure about that law. But they don’t know what they are talking about.
On the gates were written the names of the tewelve tribes of Israel.
Then Christ will shine on you.”
Then I heard the angel who was in charge of the waters.
Jesus showed his glory by doing this sign
Everyone said good things about him. They were amazed at the gracious words they heard from his lips. “Isn’t this Joseph’s son?” they asked.
Trust me
I don't want to work.
When I planned all this was I ready to change my mind for no good reason
Be humble in front of the Lord
We are no worse if we don’t eat.
The disciples kept quiet about this They didnt tell anyone at that time what they had seen
“If I am a witness about myself, what I say is not true.
He kept on talking until midnight because he planned to leave the next day
The Jewish Passover Feast was near.
A new system was instituted that students over the age of  could not be tested።
I will be their God
Your sons and daughters will prophesy.
He says,
“ ‘I know that the Lord is always with me.
But God has put together all the parts of the body. And he has given more honor to the parts that didn’t have any.
Keep watch! I have told you everything ahead of time.
They praised God. They were respected by all the people. Every day the Lord added to their group those who were being saved.
Jesus said I have come into this world to judge it
After John was put in prison, Jesus went into Galilee. He preached the good news of God.
When they reached the place Jesus spoke Pray that you wont fall into sin when you are tempted he said to them
More than that, we would be lying about God. We are witnesses that God raised Christ from the dead. But he did not raise him if the dead are not raised.
One of Crete’s own prophets has a saying.
Be shepherds of Gods flock the believers under your care watch over them though not because you have to
I arrived in London
So among God’s churches we brag about the fact that you don’t give up easily. We brag about your faith in all the suffering and testing you are going through.
will be called a prophet of the Most High God.
Give praise to the God who is able to keep you from falling into sin
Stop that
Right away he took some officers and soldiers with him They ran down to the crowd
And each woman should sleep with her own husband.
Abraham died
“In Egypt the number of our people grew and grew.
“Where is this man?” they asked him.
A voice from heaven said, “This is my Son, and I love him. I am very pleased with him.”
dressed in fine linen purple and bright red
Everyones chains came loose
Joseph and Mary Take Jesus to the Temple
He shows his mercy to those who have respect for him,from parent to child down through the years.
The temple curtain was torn in two from top to bottom
Look He is coming with the clouds
Leave your gift in front of the altar First go and make peace with them Then come back and offer your gift
Instead he will come to bring salvation to those who are waiting for him
So Moses led them out of Egypt He did wonder and signs in Egypt at the Red Sea and for  years in the desert
No more than two or three people should speak in another language. And they should speak one at a time. Then someone must explain what was said.
I preached God’s good news to you free of charge. When I did that, I was putting myself down in order to lift you up. Was this a sin?
So God’s word spread.
And whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.
I will write them on their hearts
Most of all love one another deeply Love erases many sins by forgiving them
The chief priests and our rulers handed Jesus over to be sentenced to death. They nailed him to a cross.
I won’t even mention that you owe me your life.
You act like you’re teaching little children.
The servant saw him there She said again to those standing around This fellow is one of them
Jonam was the son of Eliakim.
Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry
They were saying, “It’s true! The Lord has risen! He has appeared to Simon!”
That is very hard for Jews to accept And everyone else thinks its foolish
After he said this, he spit on the ground. He made some mud with the spit.
They have rushed into the same mistake Balaam made They did it because they loved money They are like Korah
Now I want to deal with the things you wrote me about Some of you say It is good for a man not to sleep with a woman
They were on their way up to Jerusalem Jesus was leading the way The disciples were amazed Those who followed were afraid Again Jesus took the  disciples to one side He told them what was going to happen to him
Everyone who sins breaks the law
And they are still like that today.”
They praise others to get what they want.
Remember your leaders. They spoke God’s word to you. Think about the results of their way of life. Copy their faith.
I dont say this to judge you I have told you before that you have an important place in our hearts We would live or die with you
So speaking in other languages is a sign for those who don’t believe. It is not a sign for those who do believe. But prophecy is not for those who don’t believe. It is for those who believe.
What Im about to tell you is true Everyone who believes has life forever
Then another angel came out of the temple He called in a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud Take your blade he said Cut the grain The time has come The earth is ready to be harvested
Now, Lord, consider the bad things they say they are going to do. Help us to be very bold when we speak your word.
“Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right?
God opposes those who are proud
It's :.
But the man who doesn’t marry her does a better thing.
To goodness add knowledge
John and the Angel
They made plans to arrest Jesus secretly They wanted to kill him
I am the Alpha and the Omega I am the First and the Last I am the Beginning and the End
So Jesus left Judea and went back again to Galilee.
Jesus Tells About His Coming Death
Always be ready to give an answer to anyone who asks you about the hope you have
He came to set free those who were under the authority of the law. He wanted us to be adopted as children with all the rights children have.
I saw a beast coming out of the sea. It had ten horns and seven heads.
They can go to the nearby villages and countryside. There they can find food and a place to stay. There is nothing here.”
She was pregnant
Jesus said, “My food is to do what my Father sent me to do. My food is to finish his work.
The one who was healed had no idea who it was. Jesus had slipped away into the crowd that was there.
“Look! In Zion I am laying a stone that causes people to trip.
Jesus answered, “Scripture says, ‘Do not test the Lord your God.’ ”
To others he gives the ability to speak in different kinds of languages they had not known before
You have no part or share in this holy work.
A woman has to stay married to her husband as long as he lives
I keep on doing the evil things I dont want to do
When the dead rise, whose wife will she be? All seven of them were married to her.”
The angel said There will be no more waiting
Suppose people think their beliefs and how they live are both right. But they don’t control what they say. Then they are fooling themselves. Their beliefs and way of life are not worth anything at all.
I did not know him
power belong to our God
God has raised this same Jesus back to life
“Here is what the kingdom of heaven will be like at that time. Ten bridesmaids took their lamps and went out to meet the groom.
Saul Saul it said Why are you opposing me
But when the chief priests and the elders brought charges against him, he did not answer.
But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness.
That belief and understanding lead to the hope of eternal life. Before time began, God promised to give that life. And he does not lie.
Since the four years that our country Ethiopia especially the northern part has been through peace has not been possible under various circumstances።
He replied, “Instead, blessed are those who hear God’s word and obey it.”
Brothers and sisters stop thinking like children Be like babies as far as evil is concerned But be grown up in your thinking
Then one of those standing nearby pulled his sword out He struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear
It does not dishonor other people.
So I turned away from them,
When the sun came up it burned the plants They dried up because they had no roots
We are not living out the truth
People will tell you There he is Or Here he is Dont go running off after them
The soldiers twisted thorns together to make a crown. They put it on Jesus’ head.
Is anyone among you in trouble Then that person should pray
And there will be no more sadness.
I will walk among them
He richly blesses everyone who calls on him
Our duty is not to live under the power of sin
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire
They just pretend to be godly
What goes into someones mouth does not make them unclean Its what comes out of their mouth that makes them unclean
He took the believers with him Each day he talked with people in the lecture hall of Tyrannus
They wanted to put the apostles to death
So they brought him As soon as the spirit saw Jesus it threw the boy into a fit He fell to the ground He rolled around and foamed at the mouth
So he said, “I will hear your case when those bringing charges against you get here.” Then he ordered that Paul be kept under guard in Herod’s palace.
Ill return at
There were two hundred seventy six of us on board.
It is written Everyone who is hung on a pole is under Gods curse
So Joseph and Mary took Jesus to Jerusalem
Pergamum
Then the church throughout Judea, Galilee and Samaria enjoyed a time of peace.
The word of God and prayer make it holy.
Aren’t you acting like ordinary human beings?
Don’t let anyone trick you in any way. That day will not come until people rise up against God. It will not come until the man of sin appears. He is a marked man. He is headed for ruin.
we should also love one another.
These people’s hearts have become stubborn.
This kind of person remains joined to God
He will show you a large upstairs room with furniture already in it Prepare for us to eat there
They must hate their brothers and sisters. And they must hate even their own life.
Then the two witnesses heard a loud voice from heaven. It said to them, “Come up here.”
From Perga they went on to Pisidian Antioch.
The rough ways will become smooth.
Smyrna
Abrahams son by the slave woman was born in the usual way
Daughters will refuse to obey their mothers
Then the apostles prayed and placed their hands on them
When you hope, be joyful. When you suffer, be patient. When you pray, be faithful.
You did not put any olive oil on my head.
Then the devil led Jesus to Jerusalem. He had Jesus stand on the highest point of the temple. “If you are the Son of God,” he said, “throw yourself down from here.
No In all these things we are more than winners We owe it all to Christ who has loved us
So he let them go without paying. Which of them will love him more?”
He showed me Jerusalem the Holy City It was coming down out of heaven from God
But there is a judge for anyone who does not accept me and my words.
On the Road to Emmaus
now we are children of God.
Here is what John was preaching. “After me, there is someone coming who is more powerful than I am. I’m not good enough to bend down and untie his sandals.
The soldiers led Jesus away into the palace. It was called the Praetorium. They called together the whole company of soldiers.
Jesus of Nazareth they said
And suppose that person doesn’t take pity on these needy people. Then how can the love of God be in that person?
Barnabas and Saul finished their task. Then they returned from Jerusalem.
Jesus said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.”
We belong to the Lord Jesus Christ So we strongly command people like that to settle down They have to earn the food they eat
They will lift you up in their hands.
A believer named Timothy lived there
The Lord answered him You pretenders Doesnt each of you go to the barn and untie your ox or donkey on the Sabbath day Then dont you lead it out to give it water
Right away mist and darkness came over him. He tried to feel his way around. He wanted to find someone to lead him by the hand.
From Perga they went on to Pisidian Antioch
Then the disciples went out and preached everywhere The Lord worked with them And he backed up his word by the signs that went with it
Israel Does Not Believe
Then he said to the disciples, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
You are still following the ways of the world. Some of you are jealous. Some of you argue. So aren’t you following the ways of the world? Aren’t you acting like ordinary human beings?
But love your enemies
You are witnesses of how we lived among you believers God is also a witness that we were holy and godly and without blame
When Jesus entered the synagogue leader’s house, he saw the noisy crowd and people playing flutes.
Kiss me
You are certainly giving thanks.
Jesus and those with him went to Capernaum. When the Sabbath day came, he went into the synagogue. There he began to teach.
“I will send the Friend to you from the Father. He is the Spirit of truth, who comes out from the Father.
Jesus heard that the Pharisees had thrown the man out of the synagogue.
And God is able to shower all kinds of blessings on you. So in all things and at all times you will have everything you need. You will do more and more good works.
Do I mean that food sacrificed to a statue of a god is anything?
Jews require signs
I have come so that people who are blind will see.I have come so that people who can see will become blind.”
I owe  gallons of olive oil he replied
Here is how you can tell the difference between God’s children and the devil’s children. Anyone who doesn’t do what is right isn’t God’s child. And anyone who doesn’t love their brother or sister isn’t God’s child either.
They even killed those who told about the coming of the Blameless One
Once again the leaders called in Peter and John. They commanded them not to s peak or teach at all in Jesus’ name.
Jesus replied, “I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things.
So why do you force Gentiles to follow Jewish ways
Then he prayed again That time it rained And the earth produced its crops
Jesus told the crowd to sit down on the ground
But no one laid a hand on him The time for him to show who he really was had not yet come
All the angels were standing around the throne They were standing around the elders and the four living creatures They fell down on their faces in front of the throne and worshiped God
Heal those who are sick. Bring those who are dead back to life. Make those who have skin diseases ‘clean’ again. Drive out demons. You have received freely, so give freely.
Then the disciples came to Jesus in private. They asked, “Why couldn’t we drive out the demon?”
And they will give glory to God on the day he comes to judge.
Even now it is already in the world.
Give us each day our daily bread.
You are called “uncircumcised” by those who call themselves “circumcised.”
I saw heaven standing open
“I will live with them.
Festus answered, “Paul is being held at Caesarea.
When the wine was gone, Jesus’ mother said to him, “They have no more wine.”
I have sent them.”
A will is in effect only when somebody has died.
even what they think they have will be taken away from them
How are you feeling
Some Jewish believers had come with Peter They were amazed because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out even on the Gentiles
The Greatest King of All and the Most Powerful Lord of All
If I am a witness about myself what I say is not true
First I preached to people in Damascus
You are filled with knowledge and able to teach one another
You cant outsmart God
Whoever plows and separates the grain hopes to share the harvest. And it is right for them to hope for this.
The commanding officer took the young man by the hand. He spoke to him in private.
Were you a slave when God chose you?
A man with a weak and twisted hand was there. The Pharisees were trying to accuse Jesus of a crime. So they asked him, “Does the Law allow us to heal on the Sabbath day?”
What Makes People Unclean
Love does not harm its neighbor.
The promise is based on God’s grace.
Does he owe you anything? Then charge it to me.
But we didn’t use that right.
Each one of you is a part of it
Point out these things to the brothers and sisters
Jesus continued, “In a little while, you will no longer see me.
All his neighbors were filled with fear and wonder.
There will be no more crying or pain
And I have the authority to take it back again.
Jesus left Galilee and went to the area of Tyre and Sidon
If one part is honored every part shares in its joy
They were all filled with the Holy Spirit
God is able to join them to the tree again.
The Spirit himself joins with our spirits. Together they tell us that we are God’s children.
until I put your enemies
If you worship me it will all be yours
and see good days
On the front of the ship the figures of twin gods were carved. Their names were Castor and Pollux.
But suppose unbelievers or visitors come in while everyone is prophesying.
Many people live like enemies of the cross of Christ.
What he did made his faith complete
The second beast was allowed to give breath to this statue so it could speak. The statue could kill all who refused to worship it.
Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children. Be like babies as far as evil is concerned. But be grown up in your thinking.
That is where Christ is He is sitting at Gods right hand
The created world was held back from fulfilling its purpose. But this was not the result of its own choice.
That one sin brought God’s judgment.
I will be in them, just as you are in me.
How terrible it will be for the world because of the things that cause people to sin Things like that must come But how terrible for the person who causes them
I cried and cried Thats because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll
Then he said
Every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices So this priest also had to have something to offer
What happens when someone leaves a will It is necessary to prove that the person who made the will has died
Brothers and sisters, I make my appeal to you. I do this in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. I ask that all of you agree with one another in what you say. I ask that you don’t take sides. I ask that you are in complete agreement in all that you think.
I told you that you would die in your sins
None of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’
She came to Jesus and said, “Lord, my sister has left me to do the work by myself. Don’t you care?
One persons faith allows them to eat anything But another person eats only vegetables because their faith is weak
Then why didn’t you put my money in the bank? When I came back, I could have collected it with interest.’
Judas, who had handed him over, saw that Jesus had been sentenced to die. He felt deep shame and sadness for what he had done. So he returned the  silver coins to the chief priests and the elders.
Things are no longer the way they used to be
When I was with you and needed something, I didn’t because you any expense. The believers who came from Macedonia gave me what I needed.
Suppose some of you think you are wise by the standards of the world.
You used to live as sinners when you followed the ways of this world. You served the one who rules over the spiritual forces of evil. He is the spirit who is now at work in those who don’t obey God.
Jesus answered Unless I wash you you cant share life with me
Try very hard to enter through the narrow door I tell you many will try to enter and will not be able to
Its water dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the East
After the two days Jesus left for Galilee
I wish all of you were single like me.
The people will turn their ears away from the truth.
Nathanael replied, “Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the king of Israel.”
You accept praise from one another
Then some began to spit at him. They blindfolded him. They hit him with their fists.
That’s what you have heard from the beginning.
But other land produces only thorns and weeds. That land isn’t worth anything. It is in danger of coming under God’s curse. In the end, it will be burned.
This agrees with what is written in the book of the prophets.
Then those who are in Judea should escape to the mountains
He wanted us to be adopted as children with all the rights children have.
You will offer spiritual sacrifices
Christ Jesus set us free so that the blessing given to Abraham would come to the Gentiles through Christ. He did it so that we might receive the promise of the Holy Spirit. The promised Spirit comes by believing in Christ.
Stop doubting and believe
Put your sword back in its place Jesus said to him All who use the sword will die by the sword
The next day was the day after Preparation Day The chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate
God lives in anyone who agrees that Jesus is the Son of God
After this letter has been read to you, send it on. Be sure that it is also read to the church in Laodicea. And be sure that you read the letter from Laodicea.
By doing good you will put a stop to the talk of foolish people. They don’t know what they are saying.
But Paul made an appeal to have the Emperor decide his case So I ordered him to be held until I could send him to Caesar
When these desires are allowed to remain, they lead to sin.
Many are not circumcised physically but they obey the law They will prove that you are guilty You are breaking the law even though you have the written law and are circumcised
Gods Anger Against Sinners
I see that you are very bitter. You are a prisoner of sin.”
I warn and correct those I love So be sincere and turn away from your sins
He sold the rights to what he would receive as the oldest son He sold them for a single meal
But if I dont understand what someone is saying I am a stranger to the person speaking
They promise to give freedom to these new believers But they themselves are slaves to sinful living Thats because people are slaves to anything that controls them
the beast and the false prophet.
Walk while you have the light Do this before darkness catches up with you
You know the message God sent to the people of Israel It is the good news of peace through Jesus Christ He is Lord of all
Here is how God showed his love among us.
But we know where this man is from.
They try to keep us from speaking to the Gentiles. These Jews don’t want the Gentiles to be saved.
Keep it.
But the Lord said to Ananias, “Go! I have chosen this man to work for me. He will announce my name to the Gentiles and to their kings. He will also announce my name to the people of Israel.
But God raised him from the dead
And dont eat because of a sense of what is right and wrong
He went to the high priest.
From now on you do know him
I wrote to the church
because I am a prisoner, most of the believers have become bolder in the Lord.
But Mary stayed at home.
We are waiting for Jesus Christ to appear in his glory. He is our great God and Savior.
Jesus Heals a Boy Who Is Controlled by a Demon
I can’t decide between the two.
The Holy Spirit also speaks to us about this First he says
But Elijah was not sent to any of those widows. Instead, he was sent to a widow in Zarephath near Sidon.
Thomas said to him My Lord and my God
I do all this because of the good news. And I want to share in its blessings.
I mean from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah. He was killed between the altar and the temple.
With our own eyes we saw him in all his majesty
Those who serve Christ in this way are pleasing to God They are pleasing to people too
To others he gives the power to do miracles. To others he gives the ability to prophesy. To others he gives the ability to tell the spirits apart. To others he gives the ability to speak in different kinds of languages they had not known before. And to still others he gives the ability to explain what was said in those languages.
They honored the word of the Lord
And the one who gathered a little had enough.”
The tent remained in the land until Davids time
Dont do it because you are proud
Everything is under his control.
This is the time when God will punish Jerusalem Everything will come true just as it has been written
They talked about how he would be leaving them soon. This was going to happen in Jerusalem.
First here is what people are telling me When you come together as a church you take sides
“Salvation belongs to our God,who sits on the throne.
When the sun came up it burned the plants They dried up because they had no roots
I know that you suffer and are poor But you are rich Some people say they are Jews but are not I know that their words are evil Their worship comes from Satan
Jesus replied, “You give them something to eat.”
They won’t get very far. Just like Jannes and Jambres, their foolish ways will be clear to everyone.
Jorim was the son of Matthat.
Some time later Paul spoke to Barnabas. “Let’s go back to all the towns where we preached the word of the Lord,” he said. “Let’s visit the believers and see how they are doing.”
He tried to keep the governor from becoming a believer.
But here is what I have against you
I never want to brag about anything except the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.
In the Aramaic language it was called Golgotha.
Lets go
Then let them be won to Christ without words by seeing how their wives behave.
It is Gods word
But now you know God. Even better, God knows you. So why are you turning back to those weak and worthless powers? Do you want to be slaves to them all over again?
They wondered what would happen next.
Nation will fight against nation. Kingdom will fight against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in many places. People will go hungry. All these things are the beginning of birth pains.
“There are still more of your believing brothers and sisters who will be killed. They will be killed just as you were.”
I speak to you as if you were my children It is only fair that you open your hearts wide to us also
They won.
You think these people are drunk. But they aren’t. It’s only nine o’clock in the morning!
We didnt bring anything into the world
At that time Moses was born
So you see that a person is considered right with God by what they do. It doesn’t happen only because they believe.
The praise that matters for that kind of person does not come from other people. It comes from God.
“You heard me say, ‘I am going away. And I am coming back to you.’ If you loved me, you would be glad I am going to the Father. The Father is greater than I am.
When you hope be joyful When you suffer be patient When you pray be faithful
Then the officer said, “I had to pay a lot of money to become a citizen.”
This happened three times. Then the sheet was pulled up into heaven.
“Am I a Jew?” Pilate replied.
I dont know he said
That’s why the good news was preached even to people who are now dead. It was preached to them for two reasons. It was preached so that their bodies might be judged. This judgment is made by human standards. But the good news was also preached so that their spirits might live. This life comes by means of God’s power.
Do this, because they keep watch over you.
They made Jason and the others give them money. The officials did this to make sure they would return to the court. Then they let Jason and the others go.
The New Jerusalem is the Bride of the Lamb
Then Jesus went back across the Jordan River. He went to the place where John had been baptizing in the early days.
So here is what I ask
Not at all! Scripture says, “Your family line will continue through Isaac.”
Circumcision and uncircumcision aren’t worth anything to those who believe in Christ Jesus.
Love does not harm its neighbor
The first man came from the dust of the earth
Then the group of soldiers their commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus
It is the glory of the One and only, who came from the Father.
They are Ephesus,
Some of you used to do those things.
I talked to friends
“But he replied, ‘what I’m about to tell you is true. I don’t know you.’
Hang on!
I work in a factory.
Every island ran away
They were amazed and full of fear. They asked one another, “Who is this? He commands even the winds and the waves, and they obey him.”
Or do I want God to think well of me?
Instead, you should say,
Rahab the prostitute had faith So she welcomed the spies Thats why she wasnt killed with those who didnt obey God
The Spirit marks us as Gods own We can now be sure that someday we will receive all that God has promised
A crowd came together when they heard the sound. They were bewildered because each of them heard their own language being spoken.
He must manage his children and family well
On that day fire will destroy the heavens.
So he was eaten by worms and died.
We didn’t bring anything into the world.
The number of believers grew every day.
The New Jerusalem is the Bride of the Lamb
Then they began to attack him with their words You are this fellows disciple they said
I have many reasons to trust in who I am and what I have done. Someone else may think they have reasons to trust in these things. But I have even more.
You placed on them a crown of glory and honor.
His eyes are like blazing fire. On his head are many crowns. A name is written on him that only he knows.
David himself says in the Book of Psalms
Get up The chains fell off Peters wrists
He will not give it only to me He will also give it to all those who are longing for him to return
“You are a priest forever,
He found him there. Then he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year Barnabas and Saul met with the church. They taught large numbers of people. At Antioch the believers were called Christians for the first time.
He slipped away from the temple area
“You see the people,” his disciples answered. “They are crowding against you. And you still ask, ‘Who touched me?’ ”
Then you will serve Christ Jesus well. You will show that you’ve grown in the truths of the faith. You will show that you’ve been trained by the good teaching you’ve obeyed.
What I tell you in the dark speak in the daylight What is whispered in your ear shout from the rooftops
When the devil finished all this tempting, he left Jesus until a better time.
He was, and he is, and he will come.”
He will remove sin from Jacob’s family.
The leaders could see the man who had been healed. He was standing there with them. So there was nothing they could say.
The Story of Three Slaves
But they themselves are slaves to sinful living.
The city had a huge, high wall with tewelve gates.
In this way they will store up true riches for themselves It will provide a firm basis for the next life Then they will take hold of the life that really is life
May God receive glory. He is able to strengthen your faith. He does this in keeping with the good news and the message I preach. It is the message about Jesus Christ. This message is in keeping with the mystery hidden for a very long time.
No one can shut what he opens.
They approached the village where they were going Jesus kept walking as if he were going farther
When you give to needy people, don’t let your left hand know what your right hand is doing.
Peter remembered He said to Jesus Rabbi look The fig tree you put a curse on has dried up
I also ordered those bringing charges against him to present their case to you
The other Jews said the same thing. They agreed that the charges were true.
Be humble
So I am using an everyday example to help you understand You used to give yourselves to be slaves to unclean living
They are leaders among the apostles. They became believers in Christ before I did.
They might understand with their hearts
There Christ sits far above all who rule and have authority. He also sits far above all powers and kings. He is above every name that is appealed to in this world and in the world to come.
Suppose the miracles done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon They would have turned away from their sins long ago
Gather the leftover pieces he said Dont waste anything
Mark, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke work together with me. They also send you greetings.
So Paul left the meeting of the Areopagus
“How terrible for you Pharisees! You love the most important seats in the synagogues. You love having people greet you with respect in the market.
With the shares that members bought it is just  of the profits the community makes and is an institution that is making  of the dividends
They tell lies about them They hate God They are rude and proud They brag
When Jesus entered the synagogue leaders house he saw the noisy crowd and people playing flutes
I really wanted to write to you about the salvation we share.
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I serve Christ Jesus. I have been appointed to be an apostle. God set me apart to tell others his good news.
The Holy Spirit also speaks to us about this. First he says,
Give thanks no matter what happens
he got into a boat with his disciples He went to the area of Dalmanutha
It was the city he loves But fire came down from heaven and burned them up
We have a lot to say about this. But it is hard to make it clear to you. That’s because you are no longer trying to understand.
When I was a child, I talked like a child.
I always do it that way
They even killed those who told about the coming of the Blameless One.
Jesus’ mother and brothers came to see him. But they could not get near him because of the crowd.
No one has seen the Father except the one who has come from God. Only he has seen the Father.
No God knows I do
So be sincere
The disciples were very happy when they saw the Lord.
There should not be even a hint of sexual sin among you Dont do anything impure And do not always want more and more These are not the things Gods holy people should do
We work hard with our own hands.
How did you meet Abrham
The Story of the Growing Seed
God put into the heart of Titus the same concern I have for you Thanks should be given to God for this
And you will be children of the Most High God.
There he and his family died
We are witnesses about what we have seen.
Then one of the elders said to me,
The Lamb broke open the second seal Then I heard the second living creature say Come
The cherubim were above the ark. God showed his glory there. The cherubim spread their wings over the place where sin was paid for. But we can’t say everything about these things now.
God’s anger is going to come because of these things.
He took it and ate it in front of them
Before faith in Christ came we were guarded by the law
These words I have spoken will judge them on the last day
And I saw God sitting on it.
I tried my best to get him to go to you with the others
If you forgive anyone’s sins, their sins are forgiven.
There are many people who oppose me.
Here are the words of Jesus, who is the Amen. What he speaks is faithful and true. He rules over what God has created. He says,
Then the last will be first And the first will be last
That is where Bethlehem, the town of David, was. Joseph went there because he belonged to the family line of David.
I do not mean that God’s word has failed. Not everyone in the family line of Israel really belongs to Israel.
But she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair
Then he will be able to use true teaching to comfort others and build them up.
you have forgotten to be fair and to love God.
body be kept free from blame
I tell you that something more important than the temple is here
But here is what I tell you. Anyone who divorces his wife makes her a victim of adultery. And anyone who gets married to the divorced woman commits adultery. A man may divorce his wife only if she has not been faithful to him.Promises
We want you to be very strong, in keeping with his glorious power.
I make my appeal to you, brothers and sisters. I’m asking you to become like me. After all, I became like you.
Yes I tell you and more than a prophet
Paul placed his hands on them. Then the Holy Spirit came on them.
They talked to one another about it They said If we say From heaven he will ask Then why didnt you believe him
Death through Adam
You have joy even though you may have had to suffer for a little while.
Dont fool yourselves
Rise from the dead
All the widows stood around him crying
Let's go!
So everything I say is just what the Father has told me to say.”
So I am very happy to brag about how weak I am Then Christs power can rest on me
They called the apostles in and had them whipped.
so that God has to pay them back
They will all suffer day and night for ever and ever
Weeping When Babylon Falls
‘We wipe from our feet even the dust of your town. We do it to warn you. But here is what you can be sure of. God’s kingdom has come near.’
Then Thomas, who was also called Didymus, spoke to the rest of the disciples. “Let us go also,” he said. “Then we can die with Jesus.”
A deacon must be faithful to his wife
“I will put my trust in him.”
After six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John the brother of James with him. He led them up a high mountain. They were all alone.
My dear children, I’m writing this to you so that you will not sin. But suppose someone does sin. Then we have a friend who speaks to the Father for us. He is Jesus Christ, the Blameless One.
But I will also sing with my understanding.
So Jesus went with them When Jesus came near the house
Up to this point you have understood some of the things we have said. But now here is what I hope for when the Lord Jesus returns. I hope that your pride in us will be the same as our pride in you. When this happens, you will understand us completely.
I am already being poured out like a drink offering.
Jesus went out as usual to the Mount of Olives. His disciples followed him.
But you haven’t obeyed it.”
after that time, says the Lord.
Jesus answered, “Don’t you know me, Philip? I have been among you such a long time!
But if anyone obeys God’s word,
Then he gave a loud shout like the roar of a lion.
Is It Right to Pay the Royal Tax to Caesar
All the people saw him walking and praising God
And this is the word that was preached to you.
If we claim we have not sinned, we are calling God a liar.
They ordered Peter and John to leave the Sanhedrin Then they talked things over
So also we are many persons. But in Christ we are one body.
The promise comes through faith in Jesus Christ
Lamech was the son of Methuselah
That day was the Jewish Preparation Day, and the tomb was nearby. So they placed Jesus there.
And he gave them authority to drive out demons.
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses their soul?
Then the dead will be raised to live forever
But you refuse to come to me and receive life
I want to leave Paris
For God the Father has put his seal of approval on him
Those who were sent ahead went and found the young donkey It was there just as Jesus had told them
The people of the world cant hate you But they hate me
God is pleased with those kinds of offerings.
God has raised this same Jesus back to life.
She became a mother even though she was too old to have children
In the same way those who feed on me will live because of me
A man named Lazarus was placed at his gate Lazarus was a beggar His body was covered with sores
Here we do not have a city that lasts. But we are looking for the city that is going to come.
But they didn’t hear it.”
But he said to them, “I have food to eat that you know nothing about.”
and powers are under his control
I am not a widow
fits of anger
I have been to Rome
But now faith in Christ has come So the law is no longer in charge of us
We were the first to put our hope in Christ. We were chosen to bring praise to his glory.
Then they gave him wine mixed with spices But he did not take it
The message is like a light shining in a dark place It will shine until the day Jesus comes
He gave them ears that could not hear
It is written,
So he left them and went away once more For the third time he prayed the same thing
Remember the command our Lord and Savior gave through your apostles.
What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day
The Dried-Up Fig Tree
But we don’t belong to the people who pull back and are destroyed. We belong to the people who believe and are saved.
Jesus Comforts His Disciples
This means the message about faith that we are preaching
Then we can talk face to face.
Zacchaeus wanted to see who Jesus was But he was a short man He could not see Jesus because of the crowd
remain joined to Christ Then when he comes we can be bold
It has to do with the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. It concerns the time when we will go to be with him.
Be afraid of the one who has the authority to throw you into hell after you have been killed.
He had said, “Lord, who is going to hand you over to your enemies?”
Stay calm.
Jesus ate nothing during that time.
“A farmer went out to plant his seed.
You should know that “just a little yeast works its way through the whole batch of dough.”
On the eighth day, they came to have the child circumcised.
I already warned you during my second visit I now say it again while Im away When I return I wont spare those who sinned earlier I wont spare any of the others either
Then they gave themselves to us because that was what God wanted.
Dont we have the right to take a believing wife with us when we travel The other apostles do The Lords brothers do Peter does
“If you love me obey my commands.
The second terrible judgment has passed. The third is coming soon.
He said to them You should not be concerned about times or dates The Father has set them by his own authority
Paul answered, “I’m already standing in Caesar’s court. This is where I should go on trial. I haven’t done anything wrong to the Jews. You yourself know that very well.
He had four unmarried daughters who prophesied.
The believers in Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to take an offering. It was for those who were poor among the Lord’s people in Jerusalem.
Do you believe now Jesus replied
I have to wake Abrham  up.
Right away the temple gates were shut
Everyone who is supposed to be killed by a sword
Before very long, a wind blew down from the island. It had the force of a hurricane. It was called the Northeaster.
“You Gentiles, be full of joy.
This happened so that what Isaiah the prophet had said would come true He had said
They did not understand that Jesus was telling them about his Father.
The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air.
Try your best to live in peace with everyone.
I have to preach it
My fellow Israelites I know you didnt realize what you were doing Neither did your leaders
knowledge will pass away.
He went back inside the palace. “Where do you come from?” he asked Jesus. But Jesus did not answer him.
You have been faithful
They will know that you yourself obey the law
So we must pay the most careful attention to what we have heard
They will tell you everything that is happening here
But the person who prophesies speaks to people. That person prophesies to make people stronger, to give them hope, and to comfort them.
Then they went home. There they prepared spices and perfumes. But they rested on the Sabbath day in order to obey the Law.
It is written about me in the book.
Death ruled from the time of Adam to the time of Moses Death ruled even over those who did not sin as Adam did He broke Gods command
You who are not Jews by birth, here is what I want you to remember. You are called “uncircumcised” by those who call themselves “circumcised.” But they have only been circumcised in their bodies by human hands.
And after you have done everything you can, you will still be standing.
I can see the light.
So you see that what he believed and what he did were working together
Both of them were running. The other disciple ran faster than Peter. He reached the tomb first.
The door is already locked.
Leave your gift in front of the altar. First go and make peace with them. Then come back and offer your gift.
The ten horns you saw are ten kings They have not yet received a kingdom
They do only what comes naturally
Simon Simon Satan has asked to sift all of you disciples like wheat
And the Father has given him the authority to judge This is because he is the Son of Man
But the others preach about Christ only to get ahead. They preach Christ for the wrong reasons. They think they can stir up trouble for me while I am being held by chains.
The wifes body does not belong only to her It also belongs to her husband In the same way the husbands body does not belong only to him It also belongs to his wife
We and the Lord were your examples. You followed us. You welcomed our message even when you were suffering terribly. You welcomed it with the joy the Holy Spirit gives.
It always trusts.
Because of you we face death all day long
We are seeking to be made right with God through Christ. As we do, what if we find that we who are Jews are also sinners?
The thoughts of many hearts will be known.
But this son of yours wasted your money with some prostitutes Now he comes home And for him you kill the fattest calf
He gave orders to stop the chariot.
Saul got up from the ground He opened his eyes but he couldnt see
The Jewish Passover Feast was near
You were taught to be made new in your thinking
The great gift that God has for us does not depend on the law.
Teacher they asked when will these things happen And what will be the sign that they are about to take place
The Law says the same thing.
But God feeds them.
“How do you know me?” Nathanael asked.
Jesus spoke to the man with the weak and twisted hand Stand up in front of everyone he said
In every way you have proved that you are not guilty in that matter.
But other Jews were jealous. So they rounded up some evil people from the market place. Forming a crowd, they started all kinds of trouble in the city. The Jews rushed to Jason’s house. They were looking for Paul and Silas. They wanted to bring them out to the crowd.
The workers who were hired about five oclock came Each received the usual days pay
John was with them as their helper.
About midnight Paul and Silas were praying. They were also singing hymns to God.
After she said this she went back home She called her sister Mary to one side to talk to her The Teacher is here
I tell you no one more important than John has ever been born
One owed him five hundred silver coins The other owed him fifty silver coins
Watch and pray Then you wont fall into sin when you are tempted The spirit is willing but the body is weak
I am sending you out like sheep among wolves So be as wise as snakes and as harmless as doves
“Here is your king,” Pilate said to the Jews.
Who can accept it
Abraham had faith So he obeyed God God called him to go to a place he would later receive as his own
Then you will be able to know what is best Then you will be pure and without blame for the day that Christ returns
But he wasn’t seen by all the people. He was seen only by us. We are witnesses whom God had already chosen. We ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
And that is what you believed.
They were spending many days there. So Festus talked with the king about Paul’s case. He said, “There’s a man here that Felix left as a prisoner.
Everyone who heard this wondered about it
Are you more important than he is
The written Law kills but the Spirit gives life
The Jews said to one another, “Where does this man plan to go? Does he think we can’t find him?
He replied This kind can come out only by prayer
Then a war began in heaven
“Abraham said to him, ‘They do not listen to Moses and the Prophets. So they will not be convinced even if someone rises from the dead.’ ”
He said to me Take it and eat it
They must control themselves. They must have true faith. They must love others. They must not give up.
Then Judas spoke. “Lord,” he said, “why do you plan to show yourself only to us? Why not also to the world?” The Judas who spoke those words was not Judas Iscariot.
I do not call you slaves anymore. Slaves do not know their master’s business. Instead, I have called you friends. I have told you everything I learned from my Father.
Who is more important Is it the one at the table or the one who serves Isnt it the one who is at the table But I am among you as one who serves
Go away from me Lord
So I put up with everything for the good of God’s chosen people. Then they also can be saved.
He gave Babylon the cup filled with the wine of his terrible anger
They will be comforted.
But not a hair on your head will be harmed.
I’m not writing to you because you don’t know the truth.
I don’t even judge myself.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Whoever obeys my word will never die.”
He said Give me this power too Then everyone I place my hands on will receive the Holy Spirit
Do you speak Greek he replied
The first man came from the dust of the earth. The second man came from heaven.
Do not touch anything that is not pure and clean
Greet Priscilla and Aquila Greet those who live in the house of Onesiphorus
There is a reward for all your people
Before Abraham was born I am
Here are the words of Jesus who is the First and the Last He is the one who died and came to life again He says
Jesus told the crowd to sit down on the ground.
There will no longer be any curse.
At one time we too acted like fools. We didn’t obey God. We were tricked. We were controlled by all kinds of desires and pleasures.
But I am not really alone. My Father is with me.
But just as sure as God is faithful, our message to you is not “Yes” and “No.”
Then they can advise the younger women to love their husbands and children
I wish I could be with you now I wish I could change my tone of voice As it is I dont understand you
John replied, “A person can receive only what God gives them from heaven.
“All day long I have held out my hands.
They must follow the lead of those who are in authority, as the law says.
You dont have what you want because you dont ask God
His bicycle is blue
When they arrived, they went to the Jewish synagogue.
What Im about to tell you is true The master will put that slave in charge of everything he owns
I took the little scroll from the angels hand and ate it In my mouth it tasted as sweet as honey But when I had eaten it it became sour in my stomach
Others tested Jesus by asking for a sign from heaven
I can tell you for certain that they really want to serve God But how they are trying to do it is not based on knowledge
under your control
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace
But later you will understand.”
After Jesus took the cup, he gave thanks. He said, “Take this cup and share it among yourselves.
God did not send his Son into the world to judge the world.
He was holding a little scroll. It was lying open in his hand. The angel put his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land.
We came near Cyprus and passed to the south of it
All you Gentiles praise the Lord
And we belong to the true God by belonging to his Son Jesus Christ
He has taken note of me
How about Thai food
If anyone tries to harm them, fire comes from their mouths and eats up their enemies.
That’s why we believe that what we see was not made out of what could be seen.
The Word became a human being
Then the herd rushed down the steep bank. They ran into the lake and drowned.
The soldiers also came up and poked fun at him. They offered him wine vinegar.
But Peter said he had not been with him. “I don’t know or understand what you’re talking about,” he said. He went out to the entrance to the courtyard.
And how can anyone preach without being sent
Anyone who doesn’t do what is right isn’t God’s child.
Teachings for Christian Families
Blessed are those who wash their robes They will have the right to come to the tree of life They will be allowed to go through the gates into the city
The third is coming soon
Then you will hold on to faith. You will hold on to a good sense of what is right and wrong.
Suppose I do drive out demons with Beelzebul’s help. With whose help do your followers drive them out? So then, they will be your judges.
Everyone said they didnt do it
Do that
That’s why I’m suffering the way I am. But this gives me no reason to be ashamed. That’s because I know who I have believed in. I am sure he is able to take care of what I have given him. I can trust him with it until the day he returns as judge.
They went across the lake and landed at Gennesaret. There they tied up the boat.
Is anyone among you sick? Then that person should send for the elders of the church to pray over them. They should ask the elders to anoint them with olive oil in the name of the Lord.
He is the Messiah the Lord
But this woman has not stopped kissing my feet since I came in.
Get up! Let us go! Here comes the one who is handing me over to them!”
I don’t have any place to store my crops.’
The pain the people suffered was like the sting of a scorpion when it strikes
Jesus asked, “Weren’t all ten healed? Where are the other nine?
“Hosanna in the highest heaven!”
While they were eating Jesus took bread He gave thanks and broke it He handed it to his disciples and said Take it This is my body
He has given me power to do signs and wonders I can do these things by the power of the Spirit of God
Hearing the law does not make a person right with God.
The men of Nineveh will stand up on judgment day with the people now living.
The Holy Spirit gives life. The body means nothing at all. The words I have spoken to you are full of the Spirit. They give life.
After this, the family line continued.Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel.Shealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel.
Jesus saw they were trying to trick him. So he said to them,
Pilate was surprised to hear that Jesus was already dead So he called for the Roman commander He asked him if Jesus had already died
You are judging only by how things look on the surface Suppose someone is sure they belong to Christ Then they should consider again that we belong to Christ just as much as they do
still another says I follow Christ
It is written,
The ninth was made out of topaz
They are tripped up by wanting many foolish and harmful things
You are still following the ways of the world
Their sense of what is right and wrong has been destroyed Its as though it has been burned with a hot iron
And suppose he decides he cant win Then he will send some men to ask how peace can be made He will do this while the other king is still far away
They will be changed as a person changes clothes.
I dont like summer
One of you will say to me, “Then why does God still blame us?
You have not done all that my God wants you to do.
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Philadelphia
He appointed  of them so that they would be with him. He would also send them out to preach.
What we prophesy now is not perfect.
The time came for Elizabeth to have her baby She gave birth to a son
We know that no one who depends on the law is made right with God This is because the one who is right with God will live by faith
The promise comes by faith.
Believe me when I say I am in the Father. Also believe that the Father is in me. Or at least believe what the works I have been doing say about me.
In fact, their minds and their sense of what is right and wrong are twisted.
And Death and Hell gave up their dead.
Thats also why you pay taxes
God didn’t spare the natural branches. He won’t spare you either.
God’s kingdom is not about eating or drinking. It is about doing what is right and having peace and joy. All this comes through the Holy Spirit.
if anyone takes what belongs to you, don’t ask to get it back.
I must repay the debt.
As they all approached Jerusalem they came to Bethphage It was on the Mount of Olives Jesus sent out two disciples
Even while the boy was coming, the demon threw him into a fit. The boy fell to the ground.
Arphaxad was the son of Shem
The commander heard about Jesus. So he sent some elders of the Jews to him. He told them to ask Jesus to come and heal his servant.
Children obey your parents as believers in the Lord
You are judging only by how things look on the surface. Suppose someone is sure they belong to Christ. Then they should consider again that we belong to Christ just as much as they do.
You know very well how the day of the Lord will come It will come like a thief in the night
The men came to Jesus.
But we long to be made completely holy because of our faith in Christ Through the Holy Spirit we wait for this in hope
My power is strongest when you are weak
Jesus got up and went with him So did his disciples
This woman is a member of Abraham’s family line. But Satan has kept her disabled for  long years. Shouldn’t she be set free on the Sabbath day from what was keeping her disabled?”
Someone ran and filled a sponge with wine vinegar. He put it on a stick. He offered it to Jesus to drink. “Leave him alone,” he said. “Let’s see if Elijah comes to take him down.”
But if I dont understand what someone is saying I am a stranger to the person speaking And that person is a stranger to me
But the servants who had brought the water knew. Then the person in charge called the groom to one side.
The next day as Jesus and his disciples were leaving Bethany they were hungry
When you plant something it isnt a completely grown plant that you put in the ground You only plant a seed Maybe its wheat or something else
He wants me to set free those who are treated badly
Then he said to them So give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar And give back to God what belongs to God
How awful it will be in those days for pregnant women! How awful for nursing mothers!
But you have saved the best until now
It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready when he comes. What I’m about to tell you is true.
any powers can separate us
The leaders saw how bold Peter and John were
I must bring them in too.
Is that blessing only for those who are circumcised
But here is what he says about the Son.
Show me a silver coin Whose picture and words are on it
I didn’t go up to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before I was. Instead, I went into Arabia. Later I returned to Damascus.
We have become the world’s garbage. We are everybody’s trash, right up to this moment.
It is written, “I have made you a father of many nations.”  God considers Abraham to be our father.
“His master answered, ‘I will put you in charge of five towns.’
Now the prince of this world will be thrown out
“Sit at my right hand
We boarded a ship from Adramyttium. It was about to sail for ports along the coast of Asia Minor. We headed out to sea. Aristarchus was with us. He was a Macedonian from Thessalonica.
But a new time is coming. In fact, it is already here. True worshipers will worship the Father in the Spirit and in truth. They are the kind of worshipers the Father is looking for.
His body rotted away.
-They crucified with him two rebels against Rome
While Apollos was at Corinth, Paul took the road to Ephesus.
They came to the border of Mysia. From there they tried to enter Bithynia. But the Spirit of Jesus would not let them.
Have I become your enemy now by telling you the truth
They went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him
Then Peter remembered what Jesus had said. “The rooster will crow,” Jesus had told him. “Before it does, you will say three times that you don’t know me.” Peter went outside. He broke down and cried.
Blessed are those who have not seen me but still have believed
Everyone should take a careful look at themselves before they eat the bread and drink from the cup
Two men will be in the field. One will be taken and the other left.
But you know him. He lives with you, and he will be in you.
See you
God has sent him
He would know what kind of woman she is. She is a sinner!”
Paul Preaches in Rome
If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.
Then the whole group got up and led Jesus off to Pilate
You cant come where I am going
Don’t desire to commit sexual sins like people who don’t know God.
I need a lot of books.
On Herod’s birthday the daughter of Herodias danced for Herod and his guests. She pleased Herod very much.
The south wind blows. So you say, ‘It’s going to be hot.’ And it is.
That is why I was sent.”
people will stare at their bodies.
Others said No He only looks like him
I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of Gods holy people They are the ones who are witnesses about Jesus
What Makes People Unclean
Greet one another with a holy kiss.
Follow my example. I try to please everyone in every way. I’m not looking out for what is good for me. I’m looking out for the interests of others. I do it so that they might be saved.
Towns That Do Not Turn Away From Sin
You know how you should follow our example. We worked when we were with you.
If you say or do things that harm one another watch out You could end up destroying one another
You always oppose the Holy Spirit!
He replied Suppose you have faith as small as a mustard seed Then you can say to this mulberry tree Be pulled up Be planted in the sea And it will obey you
But they didnt use force They were afraid the people would kill them by throwing stones at them
Paul replied Brothers I didnt realize he was the high priest
“I give you a new command. Love one another. You must love one another, just as I have loved you.
You trust in the law.
Who is this Son of Man
Fathers, I’m writing to you because you know the one who is from the beginning.
Tell them Gods kingdom has come near to you
The Lord stood at my side. He gave me the strength to preach the whole message.
At the place where Jesus was crucified, there was a garden.
Give her any help she may need from you
love for the Father is not in them.
Now we can comfort others when they are in trouble. We ourselves receive comfort from God.
Brothers and fathers Paul began listen to me now I want to give you reasons for my actions
I do it to win as many as I can to Christ.
He also wrote them down
In other words, it is not a part of this creation.
It is enough for students to be like their teachers And it is enough for slaves to be like their masters If the head of the house has been called Beelzebul what can the others who live there expect
They bring out the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink.
All these people were praised because they had faith
They gave him a piece of cooked fish.
Philip went to tell Andrew
The one who obeys Gods commands remains joined to him And he remains joined to them
Another follower said to him Lord first let me go and bury my father
There they gathered the church together They gave the letter to them
Death through Adam,
He has set a day when he will judge the world fairly. He has appointed a man to be its judge. God has proved this to everyone by raising that man from the dead.”
She forgets because she is so happy that a baby has been born into the world
Each day Jesus taught at the temple. And each evening he went to spend the night on the hill called the Mount of Olives.
The leaders warned them again. Then they let them go. They couldn’t decide how to punish Peter and John. They knew that all the people were praising God for what had happened.
Jesus became angry. He reached out his hand and touched the man. “I am willing to do it,” Jesus said. “Be ‘clean’!”
In her hand she held a golden cup filled with things that God hates.
If your right hand causes you to sin cut it off and throw it away Your hand is only one part of your body It is better to lose a hand than for your whole body to go into hellDivorce
There was a man named Demetrius who made things out of silver. He made silver models of the temple of the goddess Artemis. He brought in a lot of business for the other skilled workers there.
Jesus’ disciples asked him, “Rabbi, who sinned?
David spoke about him. He said,
Here is a problem that you have to be wise to understand
Out of the temple came the seven angels who were bringing the seven plagues
While Jesus was still speaking Judas arrived He was one of the  disciples A large crowd was with him They were carrying swords and clubs The chief priests and the elders of the people had sent them
Teachings like those come from liars who pretend to be what they are not Their sense of what is right and wrong has been destroyed Its as though it has been burned with a hot iron
His body wouldnt rot in the ground
The rest were killed by the sword that came out of the riders mouth All the birds stuffed themselves with the dead bodies
Make sure no one controls you. They will try to control you by using false reasoning that has no meaning. Their ideas depend on human teachings. They also depend on the basic spiritual powers of this world. They don’t depend on Christ.
It is in keeping with the prophecies once made about you
And I know that what he says about me is true
“They have spread their gifts around to poor people.
Jesus said, “Take care of my sheep.”
But a Samaritan came to the place where the man was.
This matter came up because some people had slipped in among us. They had pretended to be believers. They wanted to find out about the freedom we have because we belong to Christ Jesus. They wanted to make us slaves again.
This is the one I was talking about. I said, ‘A man who comes after me is more important than I am. That’s because he existed before I was born.’
Follow the lead of one another because of your respect for Christ
Then Jesus said to them Dont you understand this story Then how will you understand any stories of this kind
Dear friends, do not believe every spirit.
“Didn’t Israel understand?”
And whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Go to your people Say to them
The Jews who heard these words could not agree with one another.
They have all become worthless
And his word does not live in you Thats because you do not believe the one he sent
Hes a DJ
Then they asked them to leave the city
Jesus replied Anyone who loves me will obey my teaching My Father will love them We will come to them and make our home with them
My true companion, here is what I ask you to do. Help these women, because they have served at my side. They have worked with me to spread the good news. So have Clement and the rest of those who have worked together with me. Their names are all written in the book of life.
“If I am a witness about myself, what I say is not true.
“From this man’s family line God has brought to Israel the Savior Jesus. This is what he had promised.
It is clear that our Lord came from the family line of Judah. Moses said nothing about priests who were from the tribe of Judah.
The eternal King will never die He cant be seen He is the only God Give him honor and glory for ever and ever Amen
They knew it was the Lord.
He is not the God of the dead He is the God of the living You have made a big mistake
So you see that a person is considered right with God by what they do
Wear sandals But do not take extra clothes
He complained to God about Israel
He planned to create one new people out of Jews and Gentiles. He wanted to make peace between them.
I do all this because of the good news And I want to share in its blessings
He came to his hometown of Nazareth There he began teaching the people in their synagogue They were amazed Where did this man get this wisdom Where did he get this power to do miracles they asked
Listen I am telling you a mystery
Come he replied You will see
Christ is the living Stone People did not accept him but God chose him God places the highest value on him
still another says, “I follow Christ.”
Then the man jumped up and began to walk.
People like them are worthy of honor.
Suddenly the angel left Peter
As far as the law is concerned I am a Pharisee
Jesus stood up and asked her Woman where are they
He is the true God and eternal life.
I have made myself a slave to everyone.
God said, “Let light shine out of darkness.” He made his light shine in our hearts. His light gives us the light to know God’s glory. His glory is shown in the face of Christ.
Believers at Corinth,
I was very troubled when I wrote to you. My heart was sad. My eyes were full of tears.
The man who had been healed by the miracle was over fourty years old.
Brothers and sisters choose seven of your men They must be known as men who are wise and full of the Holy Spirit
Here are the words of Jesus, who is the First and the Last. He is the one who died and came to life again. He says,
Gods Armor for Believers
These men havent robbed any temples
The crowd didn’t know what was going on. Some were shouting one thing and some another. Most of the people didn’t even know why they were there.
Youre out of your mind they said to her
When he finished, one of his disciples spoke to him.
They went up to heaven in a cloud. Their enemies watched it happen.
The four angels had been ready for this very hour and day and month and year
Why didnt she come
This baptism saves you by the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead.
They must be stopped. They are making trouble for entire families. They do this by teaching things they shouldn’t. They do these things to cheat people.
They now dare even more to preach the good news without fear.
It was not easy to sail along the coast. Then we came to a place called Fair Havens. It was near the town of Lasea.
Those you have given me know you have sent me
The Holy Spirit is given to each of us in a special way That is for the good of all
Here is what God said to him
They will rule for ever and ever.
‘Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin.
My Father is the gardener
His master replied You have done well good and faithful slave You have been faithful with a few things I will put you in charge of many things Come and share your masters happiness
You will tell his people how they can be savedYou will tell them that their sins can be forgiven
Judas was the one who was going to hand him over. He said, “Surely you don’t mean me, Teacher, do you?”
Evil spirits screamed and came out of many people. Many people who were disabled or who couldn’t walk were healed.
He replied, “Isaiah was right. He prophesied about you people who pretend to be good. He said,
The soldiers planned to kill the prisoners. They wanted to keep them from swimming away and escaping.
First there were Simon Peter and his brother Andrew
And Sarah had faith. So God made it possible for her to become a mother. She became a mother even though she was too old to have children. But Sarah believed that the God who made the promise was faithful.
But I tell you open your eyes Look at the fields They are ripe for harvest right now
You have prepared it in the sight of all nations
Aren’t five sparrows sold for two pennies? But God does not forget even one of them.
Now we serve in the new way of the Holy Spirit We no longer serve in the old way of the written law
Here is your change.
His pitchfork is in his hand to clear the straw from his threshing floor He will gather his wheat into the storeroom But he will burn up the husks with fire that cant be put out
So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him
But the Lord is faithful He will strengthen you He will guard you from the evil one
How much more should we be trained by the Father of spirits and live!
While it is still day we must do the works of the one who sent me
The other prisoners were listening to them.
I havent done anything wrong to the Jews You yourself know that very well
asked him to give me the little scroll
Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you.
He prowls around looking for someone to swallow up.
Jesus replied Where I am going you cant follow now But you will follow me later
Anyone who speaks against a brother or sister speaks against the law
About this time King Herod arrested some people who belonged to the church He planned to make them suffer greatly
And what if she divorces her husband and gets married to another man? She commits adultery.”
During the night Paul had a vision He saw a man from Macedonia standing and begging him Come over to Macedonia the man said Help us
Why do you fight and argue among yourselves
John had been saying to Herod, “It is against the Law for you to have her as your wife.”
Paul Plans to Visit Rome
By this time you should be teachers But in fact you need someone to teach you all over again You need even the simple truths of Gods word You need milk not solid food
They did not find him. So they went back to Jerusalem to look for him.
There are thousands and thousands of them
Paul and Barnabas shook the dust off their feet. This was a warning to the people who had opposed them. Then Paul and Barnabas went on to Iconium.
The two returned and told the others about it But the others did not believe them either
But Jesus has been given a greater work to do for God He is the go-between for the new covenant This covenant is better than the old one The new covenant is based on better promises
“no eye has seen,
Now send men to Joppa Have them bring back a man named Simon He is also called Peter
Then he will be ashamed of that person.
But God is faithful and fair. If we confess our sins,
He said they would possess the land
We know that the law is good if it is used properly
Serving me is easy, and my load is light.”
You use all kinds of tricks. Won’t you ever stop twisting the right ways of the Lord?
God called Abraham his friend.
I tell you he said get up Take your mat and go home
I will be in them just as you are in me
When all the people were being baptized Jesus was baptized too
Some are also faithful today. They have been chosen by God’s grace.
Skip it
God did all this to prove that he does what is right. He is a God of mercy. So he did not punish for their sins the people who lived before Jesus lived.
They said, “John the Baptist sent us to ask you,
But when we opened the doors, we didn’t find anyone inside.”
Jesus was still teaching in the temple courtyard. He cried out, “Yes, you know me.
I consider Silas to be a faithful brother With his help I have written you this short letter
Give him honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
About an hour later another person spoke up This fellow must have been with Jesus he said He is from Galilee
What should we say then?
The man sent still another servant The renters killed him The man sent many others The renters beat up some of them They killed the others
Then a war began in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back.
Do to her as she has done to others
Heaven and earth will pass away But my words will never pass away
Legion he replied
He spoke clearly about this Peter took Jesus to one side and began to scold him
They were happy to do it. And of course they owe it to them.
But Jesus kept looking around. He wanted to see who had touched him.
I like taking walks
They came together in Galilee. Then Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men.
None of you should sin against your brother or sister by doing that.
Let the person who does wrong keep on doing wrong.
But you yourself broke the law when you commanded them to hit me!”
They will rule for ever and ever
and do good.
Two Kinds of Olive Branches
obey your masters out of deep respect for God. Obey not only those who are good and kind. Obey also those who are not kind.
There were seven brothers among us. The first one got married and died. Since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother.
So we are sending Judas and Silas with them What they say will agree with this letter
When all the people saw Jesus, they were filled with wonder. And they ran to greet him.
Brothers and sisters, don’t ever get tired of doing what is good.
God showed that this message is true by signs and wonders.
it will not be taken away from her.”
Yes it was written for us
And the truth will set you free.”
The Widows Offering
They must do something useful with their own hands Then they will have something to give to people in need
but people loved darkness instead of light They loved darkness because what they did was evil
But in the other case it is collected by the one who is said to be living
has become the most important stone of all
But everyone who hears my words and does not put them into practice is like a foolish man. He builds his house on sand.
I don’t live any longer,
Did God turn his back on his people
You gain a lot when you live a godly life. But you must be happy with what you have.
But before time began, God planned that his wisdom would bring us heavenly glory.
By doing that he set us free from all evil
The Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world
I turned around to see who was speaking to me.
This son of mine was dead. And now he is alive again. He was lost. And now he is found.’ So they began to celebrate.
So Peter got out of the boat He walked on the water toward Jesus
So he said I will hear your case when those bringing charges against you get here
The soldiers twisted thorns together to make a crown They put it on Jesus head
They asked her, “Woman, why are you crying?”
Then a war began in heaven.
His disciples stared at one another They had no idea which one of them he meant
But do not be glad when the evil spirits obey you. Instead, be glad that your names are written in heaven.”
Two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in shining glory.
Do you have the gift of prophecy? Then use it according to the faith you have.
Dont you understand yet Jesus asked them
The rest were supposed to get there on boards or other pieces of the ship
Each of us should please our neighbors. Let us do what is good for them in order to build them up.
Then I heard another voice from heaven
I want you to know how hard I am working for you. I’m concerned for those who are in Laodicea. I’m also concerned for everyone who has not met me in person.
I tll you for sure that there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah. And there had been no rain for three and a half years. There wasn’t enoughfood to eat anywhere in the land.
Jesus answered, “How can the guests of the groom go without eating while he is with them? They will not fast as long as he is with them.
God wants you to thank him because you believe in Christ Jesus.
Don’t I have the right to do what I want with my own money? Do you feel cheated because I gave so freely to the others?’
We gave you hope and strength. We comforted you. We really wanted you to live in a way that is worthy of God. He chooses you to enter his glorious kingdom.
He took the blind man by the hand Then he led him outside the village He spit on the mans eyes and placed his hands on him Do you see anything Jesus asked
When Zechariah saw him, he was amazed and terrified.
The high priest said to him I am commanding you in the name of the living God May he judge you if you dont tell the truth Tell us if you are the Messiah the Son of God
Then the four living creatures and the  elders fell down in front of the Lamb Each one had a harp They were holding golden bowls full of incense They stand for the prayers of Go  ds people
You must eat the Son of Man’s body and drink his blood.
to tell you this good news.
But the Lord doesnt bless those who do evil
All creatures in heaven on earth under the earth and on the sea were speaking
If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven.”
But the others preach about Christ only to get ahead They preach Christ for the wrong reasons They think they can stir up trouble for me while I am being held by chains
It was heard the week that they said they were going to take the university entrance exam for twety times, saying they would not surrender።
When Herod saw Jesus, he was very pleased. He had been wanting to see Jesus for a long time. He had heard much about him. He hoped to see Jesus perform a sign of some kind.
“Do you refuse to speak to me?”
Large crowds were traveling with Jesus He turned and spoke to them
They trip and fall because they do not obey the message
So here is what I tell you. Every kind of sin and every evil word spoken against God will be forgiven. But speaking evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
And we share life with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ
To others, show mercy mixed with fear of sin. Hate even the clothes that are stained by the sins of those who wear them.
They all came together regularly to pray
Jesus went away a second time He prayed My Father is it possible for this cup to be taken away But if I must drink it may what you want be done
All your riches
Jacobs well was there
But my life might even be poured out like a drink offering on your sacrifices.
And if Christ has not been raised your faith doesnt mean anything
“Here is my mother! Here are my brothers!
Judas was one of the tewelve  disciples But later he was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies
When I do, they will prophesy.
John replied using the words of Isaiah the prophet John said Im the messenger who is calling out in the desert Make the way for the Lord straight
Everything that is secret will be brought out into the open.
A man named Simon lived in the city. For quite a while he had practiced evil magic there. He amazed all the people of Samaria. He claimed to be someone great.
Im asking that we love one another
His eyes see everything.
They also become more sure of their faith in Christ Jesus
He showed that its true by different kinds of miracles
We serve God in times of glory and shame
There he greeted the church. He then went down to Antioch.
One of the Jewish leaders spoke up. His name was Caiaphas. He was high priest at that time. He said, “You don’t know anything at all!
The soldiers planned to kill the prisoners They wanted to keep them from swimming away and escaping
This happens so that his life can also be shown in our earthly bodies
But suppose they dont do them By not doing these good deeds they sin
“By what power did you do this?” they asked. “And through whose name?”
So try your best to be found pure and without blame.
“I have shown you to the disciples you gave me out of the world.
He gives eternal life to all those you have given him
Then he began to teach them
He serves the Lord together with us.
Death is at work in us But life is at work in you
Then Jesus took the loaves and gave thanks. He handed out the bread to those who were seated. He gave them as much as they wanted. And he did the same with the fish.
The Sadducees do not believe that people rise from the dead. Some of them came to Jesus with a question.
Some were made fun of and even whipped.
The boat was already a long way from land. It was being pounded by the waves because the wind was blowing against it.
Jesus Tells About His Coming Death
“Enter God’s kingdom through the narrow gate. The gate is large and the road is wide that leads to ruin. Many people go that way.
There were rumblings
I would be a liar like you.
Then the Jews there began to complain about Jesus. That was because he said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.”
“Lord,” Simon Peter replied, “not just my feet! Wash my hands and my head too!”
So you should try very hard to add goodness to your faith. To goodness, add knowledge.
Do those who depend on the law receive the promise If they do faith would mean nothing
Joda was the son of Joanan.
They called Barnabas Zeus Paul was the main speaker So they called him Hermes
Be nice.
The soldiers brought them to the place called the Skull. There they nailed Jesus to the cross. He hung between the two criminals. One was on his right and one was on his left.
Even if my letter made you sad Im not sorry I sent it At first I was sorry I see that my letter hurt you but only for a little while
I'm going to the bank.
Jesus answered, “I did tell you.
It said, “This is my Son, and I love him. I am very pleased with him.”
So they looked for a way to arrest him. But they were afraid of the crowd. The people believed that Jesus was a prophet.
Jesus no longer moved around openly among the people of Judea Instead he went away to an area near the desert
Remember your leaders They spoke Gods word to you
I want to preach it because I’m not ashamed of the good news.
“Whoever listens to you listens to me.
“You were stubborn. That’s why Moses wrote you this law,” Jesus replied.
And I will continue with all of you to help you grow in your faith.
The beast was allowed to make war against Gods holy people and to overcome them
Who do you think you are?”
I am sending him to you for one reason. I want you to know what is happening here. I want him to encourage you and make your hearts strong.
There is no darkness in him at all.
There is only one God.
After he said this, Jesus went on speaking to them. “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep,” he said. “But I am going there to wake him up.”
Brothers and sisters here is what Im telling you Bodies made of flesh and blood cant share in the kingdom of God And what dies cant share in what never dies
That is how everyone reached land safely
When they found him they called out Everyone is looking for you
He made his home with us We have seen his glory
But the charges brought against me by these Jews are not true No one has the right to hand me over to them
Dear lady Im not writing you a new command Im writing a command weve had from the beginning Im asking that we love one another
Instead, they are the children God promised to him. They are the ones considered to be Abraham’s children.
Then what reward do I get?
Dont have anything to do with godless stories and silly tales Instead train yourself to be godly
This son of mine was dead And now he is alive again He was lost And now he is found So they began to celebrate
“John’s baptism,” they replied.
be given to our God for ever and ever
The Yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees
Perhaps they blame me for what I said when I was on trial I shouted I believe that people will rise from the dead
I was appointed to be a messenger and an apostle to preach the good news. I am telling the truth. I’m not lying. God appointed me to be a true and faithful teacher of the Gentiles.
In the Aramaic language it was called Gabbatha.
God was pleased to bring all things back to himself Thats because of what Christ has done These things include everything on earth and in heaven God made peace through Christs blood by his death on the cross
So they answered Jesus We dont know
He is the father of us all
It’s the same with you.
Those who prophesy should control their speaking.
It’s true that I also baptized those who live in the house of Stephanas. Besides that, I don’t remember if I baptized anyone else.
I thank God, whom I serve as did our people of long ago. I serve God, knowing that what I have done is right.
If I have to brag I will brag about the things that show how weak I am
When they reached the place, Jesus spoke. “Pray that you won’t fall into sin when you are tempted,” he said to them.
Or should we look for someone else?’ ”
All things were made through him.
These people are like springs without water.
I only know that in every city the Spirit warns me. He tells me that I will face prison and suffering.
He was already with the Father. He has appeared to us.
He heard things there that couldnt be put into words
It was the day before the Sabbath That day was called Preparation Day As evening approached
As far as keeping the law is concerned, I kept it perfectly.
Some teachers of the law who were Pharisees were there They saw Jesus eating with sinners and tax collectors
Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, who we can go to?
The Law says the same thing
I looked and there in front of me was a white horse Its rider held a bow in his hands He was given a crown He rode out like a hero on his way to victory
I know him
“I don’t know where they have put him.”
Do they belong to the people of Israel? So do I.
They wanted to hear what you hear
They will see God
You sent me into the world. In the same way, I have sent them into the world.
Do you understand what youre reading Philip asked
Jesus turned to the Pharisees and the authorities on the law. He asked them, “Is it breaking the Law to heal on the Sabbath day?”
Everyone should provide for their own relatives Most of all everyone should take care of their own family If they dont they have left the faith They are worse than someone who doesnt believe
The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air. Out of the temple came a loud voice from the throne. It said, “It is done!”
I went to Troas to preach the good news about Christ There I found that the Lord had opened a door of opportunity for me
He told them This is what is written The Messiah will suffer He will rise from the dead on the third day
I am the living bread that came down from heaven
No one could give any answer to him. From that day on, no one dared to ask him any more questions.
That is a deep mystery
The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham At that time Abraham was still in Mesopotamia He had not yet begun living in Harran
But Satan blocked our way
All of you should honor marriage. You should keep the marriage bed pure. God will judge the person who commits adultery. He will judge everyone who commits sexual sins.
Then why was the law given at all?
Who is the liar? It is anyone who says that Jesus is not the Christ.
He sent his Son to save the world through him.
They shouted and threw off their coats They threw dust into the air
But you sin if you dont treat everyone the same The law judges you because you have broken it
Those who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God
Levi collects the tenth But we might say that Levi paid the tenth through Abraham
In Scripture it says,
So remember what you have been taught and have heard
They say, ‘The old wine is better.
And you will know Gods great power It cant be compared with anything else His power works for us who believe
His disciples were saying to him,
He is a soldier of Christ together with us
After this, Judas from Galilee came along. This was in the days when the Romans made a list of all the people. Judas led a gang of men against the Romans. He too was killed. All his followers were scattered.
Jesus Heals Ten Men Who Have a Skin Disease
Hands off
They speak empty, bragging words. They make their appeal to the evil desires that come from sin’s power.
Siloam means Sent. So the man went and washed.
Then I will find out how those proud people are talking. I will also find out what power they have.
Love your neighbor as you love yourself
Then I will give you life as your crown of victory.
But the Pharisee was surprised. He noticed that Jesus did not wash before the meal.
This grace will be brought to you when Jesus Christ returns
Joseph took it down and wrapped it in linen cloth. Then he placed it in a tomb cut in the rock. No one had ever been buried there.
Their women committed sexual acts that were not natural.
I Paul am writing this greeting with my own hand
Paul and Barnabas shook the dust off their feet This was a warning to the people who had opposed them Then Paul and Barnabas went on to Iconium
‘I am the God of your fathers. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.’ Moses shook with fear. He didn’t dare to look.
This is the written story of the family line of Jesus the Messiah He is the son of David He is also the son of Abraham
When we are attacked we put up with it
But you have come to Mount Zion. You have come to the city of the living God.
the seven stars you saw in my right hand.
If the law could, wouldn’t the sacrifices have stopped being offered?
Fathers dont make your children angry Instead instruct them and teach them the ways of the Lord as you raise them
Jesus left the temple. He was walking away when his disciples came up to him. They wanted to call his attention to the temple buildings.
Because you are his child, God gives you the rights of those who are his children.
You will not suffer from any of her plagues.
Or do I want God to think well of me
They went through it.
So the man sent another slave. They beat that one and treated him badly. They also sent him away with nothing.
Jesus looked around at them in anger. He was very upset because their hearts were stubborn.
Even though they were very poor they gave very freely
Here is what you can be sure of And God is even a witness to it What I am writing you is not a lie
These things only lead to fights about ideas They dont help Gods work move forward His work is done by faith
His disciples and a large crowd went along with him
But I will come very soon if thats what the Lord wants
“Go,” Jesus replied. “Your son will live.”
I have always wanted to preach the good news where Christ was not known. I don’t want to build on what someone else has started.
Your wanting more and more will eat your body like fire.
Aristarchus is in prison with me He sends you his greetings So does Mark the cousin of Barnabas You have been given directions about him If he comes to you welcome him
All these people were praised because they had faith. But none of them received what God had promised.
And he brought Simon to Jesus.
We are sending this letter to you the members of the church in Thessalonica You belong to God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ
None! I would need to come with new truth or knowledge. Or I would need to come with a prophecy or a teaching.
It is like yeast that a woman used. She mixed it into  pounds of flour. The yeast worked its way all through the dough.”
Ask Search Knock
If your gift is serving then serve
Those eight people were saved through water.
From one man he made all the people of the world. Now they live all over the earth. He decided exactly when they should live.
“ ‘Fallen! Babylon the Great has fallen!’
Suppose you see any brother or sister commit a sin. But this sin is not the kind that leads to death. Then you should pray, and God will give them life. I’m talking about someone whose sin does not lead to death. But there is a sin that does lead to death. I’m not saying you should pray about that sin.
Was Johns baptism from heaven Or did it come from human authority Tell me
You study the Scriptures carefully. You study them because you think they will give you eternal life. The Scriptures you study are a witness about me.
What is spiritual did not come first What is earthly came first
I would be a liar like you
Or suppose he asks for an egg. Which of you will give him a scorpion?
Tell us then, what do you think? Is it right to pay the royal tax to Caesar or not?”
So I ask you again how does God give you his Spirit How does he work miracles among you Is it by doing what the law says Or is it by believing what you have heard
Abrham waved.
As he went along people spread their coats on the road
“You mean he has fooled you also?” the Pharisees asked.
Whoever belongs to the Son has life.
In fact we felt as if we were under the sentence of death
So he went and sold everything he had And he bought that field
Dont think that Im trying to scare you with my letters
He blessed them greatly while they were in Egypt.
I felt good tonight
He is holy pure and without blame
“As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit came on them. He came just as he had come on us at the beginning.
“They look, but they don’t really see.
It is wonderful in our eyes’?”
Peter and his companions had been very sleepy
The Lord is full of tender mercy and loving concern
I wanted you to put them in order I also wanted you to appoint elders in every town I told you how to do it
As you know very well it has turned out that way
Then Jesus said to her, “Woman, you have great faith! You will be given what you are asking for.” And her daughter was healed at that moment. Jesus Feeds Four Thousand
“The Son of Man will come in all his glory. All the angels will come with him. Then he will sit in glory on his throne.
Rabbi eat something
John was coming to the end of his work. ‘Who do you suppose I am?’ he said. ‘I am not the one you are looking for.
“Then I don’t find you guilty either,” Jesus said.
But there are some other Jews who should be here in front of you They are from Asia Minor
Heres what believers who are in low positions in life should be proud of They should be proud that God has given them a high position in the kingdom
Be Fair When You Judge Other People
The Lord himself will come down from heaven. We will hear a loud command. We will hear the voice of the leader of the angels. We will hear a blast from God’s trumpet. Many who believe in Christ will have died already. They will rise first.
But no one else is being built up.
like loud thunder.
And how can anyone preach without being sent? It is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news!”
So I will send you away from your country.’
And now something more important than Jonah is here.
The one who plants and the one who waters have the same purpose
Anyone who speaks in other languages builds up only themselves
Do Not Love the World
The secrets of their hearts will be brought out into the open. They will fall down and worship God. They will exclaim, “God is really here among you!”
Hate what is evil.
At that time, the son born in the usual way tried to hurt the other son. The other son was born by the power of the Holy Spirit. It is the same now.
They spit on him They hit him on the head with the stick again and again
Don’t take part in the sins of others. Keep yourself pure.
became rich because of her wealth!
Even worse he died on a cross
Is everyone an apostle Is everyone a prophet Is everyone a teacher Do all work miracles
I must be leaving now.
The truth is not in us
And suppose visitors or unbelievers come in.
The four angels had been ready for this very hour and day and month and year They were set free to kill a third of all people
He and everyone with him were amazed at the number of fish they had caught
But he was killed
The people of the island were unusually kind. It was raining and cold. So they built a fire and welcomed all of us.
It is not proud.
Each of us has one body with many parts. And the parts do not all have the same purpose.
we will be changed.
The Lord has done it
I Paul am writing this letter I serve Christ Jesus I have been appointed to be an apostle God set me apart to tell others his good news
The woman realized that people would notice he.
People were really amazed He has done everything well they said He even makes deaf people able to hear And he makes those who cant speak able to talk
So they asked his disciples Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners
Jesus entered Jerusalem and went into the temple courtyard. He looked around at everything. But it was already late. So he went out to Bethany with the disciples.
they threw him out of the synagogue
They studied the Scriptures carefully every day They wanted to see if what Paul said was true So they were nobler than the Thessalonian Jews
I can help you, too.
Abrham tried
Then you will save yourself and those who hear you.
He separated himself from the Gentiles
Run away from the evil things that young people long for.
“Still another said, ‘I just got married, so I can’t come.’
He said
Jesus answered, “I am the way and the truth and the life.
I was told Go and measure the temple of God
Have you experienced so much for nothing?
But my life might even be poured out like a drink offering on your sacrifices Im talking about the way you serve because you believe Even so I am glad I am joyful with all of you
He called in a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud
Johns disciples came and took his body and buried it Then they went and told Jesus
He came over to us. Then he took Paul’s belt and tied his own hands and feet with it. He said, “The Holy Spirit says, ‘This is how the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem will tie up the owner of this belt. They will hand him over to the Gentiles.’ ”
He said to them, “What if one of your sheep falls into a pit on the Sabbath day? Won’t you take hold of it and lift it out?
I have worked very hard Often I have gone without sleep I have been hungry and thirsty Often I have gone without food I have been cold and naked
If the whole body were an eye, how could it hear? If the whole body were an ear, how could it smell?
If I don’t have love, I am only a loud gong or a noisy cymbal.
When the earth and sky saw his face they ran away
The fifth angel blew his trumpet.
Now we see only a dim likeness of things. It is as if we were seeing them in a foggy mirror.
We who are alive are always in danger of death because we are serving Jesus. This happens so that his life can also be shown in our earthly bodies.
So he now loved them to the very end
When Martha heard that Jesus was coming
I will send prophets and apostles to them
They tempt new believers who are just escaping from the company of sinful people.
It does not obey Gods law
The Pharisees gathered around Jesus. So did some of the teachers of the law. All of them had come from Jerusalem.
Do Good to Everyone
Yes, it was written for us.
They said, “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself.”
We pray this so that the name of our Lord Jesus will receive glory through what you have done
These are the things you should teach.
I will show signs on the earth below.
Then the man said, “Lord, I believe.”
And I remain in them.
Tell the older men that in anything they do they must not go too far They must be worthy of respect
God has shown these things to us through his Spirit
You know the grace shown by our Lord Jesus Christ.
Coming out of the rider’s mouth is a sharp sword. He will strike down the nations with the sword.
So he called in each person who owed his master something He asked the first one How much do you owe my master
The winepress stands for the terrible anger of the God who rules over all.
All these things should describe you more and more. They will make you useful
“Jesus of Nazareth,” they said.
He “will rule all the nations with an iron scepter.”
I heard the voice I had heard before. It sounded like a trumpet. The voice said, “Come up here. I will show you what must happen after this.”
The God who chose you is holy. So you should be holy in all that you do. It is written, “Be holy, because I am holy.”
Then Jesus replied Didnt I choose you
Suppose they had not known the way of godliness. This would have been better than to know godliness and then turn away from it. The way of godliness is the sacred command passed on to them.
You have stored up riches in these last days
A Lamp on a Stand
If they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us.
The great city split into three parts. The cities of the nations crumbled and fell. God remembered Babylon the Great. He gave Babylon the cup filled with the wine of his terrible anger.
Ungodly people are surprised that you no longer join them in what they do
Everyone who sins breaks the law In fact breaking the law is sin
Jesus stepped into a boat He went over to the other side of the lake and came to his own town
I have been cold and naked
The dead man sat up and began to talk
God didn’t choose us to receive his anger.
All the people saw him walking and praising God.
“Death, where is the victory you thought you had?
People like that are false apostles. They are workers who tell lies. They only pretend to be apostles of Christ.
But you are lukewarm You arent hot or cold So I am going to spit you out of my mouth
So each of you must get rid of your lying Speak the truth to your neighbor We are all parts of one body
Pilate saw that he wasn’t getting anywhere. Instead, the crowd was starting to get angry. So he took water and washed his hands in front of them. “I am not guilty of this man’s death,” he said. “You are accountable for that!”
We moved along slowly for many days. We had trouble getting to Cnidus. The wind did not let us stay on course. So we passed the calmer side of Crete, opposite Salmone.
Then Jesus went up on a mountainside
Here is what we can be sure of when we come to God in prayer If we ask anything in keeping with what he wants he hears us
Now, Lord, consider the bad things they say they are going to do.
We will hear the voice of the leader of the angels.
When you hope be joyful
You are the body of Christ.
After Jesus had sent the crowd away, he got into the boat. He went to the area near Magadan.
Pauls Reasons for Giving Instructions to Timothy
Think carefully about what you hear he said As you give so you will receive In fact you will receive even more
I had seen an angel standing on the sea and on the land This angel raised his right hand to heaven
They showed him the robes and other clothes Dorcas had made before she died
So I will be very happy to spend everything I have for you I will even spend myself If I love you more will you love me less
They are enemies of everyone
“The message is near you.
After I go through Macedonia, I will come to you. I will only be passing through Macedonia.
God, who looks into our hearts, knows the mind of the Spirit. And the Spirit prays for God’s people just as God wants him to pray.
I will send prophets and apostles to them.
While they were eating he said What Im about to tell you is true One of you will hand me over to my enemies
Wake up Strengthen what is left or it will die
My jealousy for you comes from God himself.
Give freely to poor people to show what is inside you
And the world listens to them.
Our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father loved us. By his grace God gave us comfort that will last forever.
If I dont have love I get nothing at all
They will cry out,
He has filled you with joy by pouring the sacred oil on your head.”
No one can lay any other foundation than what has already been laid. That foundation is Jesus Christ.
Jesus defended himself. He said to them, “My Father is always doing his work.
God’s grace has now appeared. By his grace, God offers to save all people.
Before God took him, Enoch was praised as one who pleased God.
Paul went down and threw himself on the young man. He put his arms around him. “Don’t be alarmed,” he told them. “He’s alive!”
We know that Christ was raised from the dead and will never die again Death doesnt control him anymore
Anyone who speaks in a language they had not known before doesn’t speak to people. They speak only to God.
Meanwhile a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there, so they came.
He will go out to cause the nations to believe lies. He will gather them from the four corners of the earth. He will bring Gog and Magog together for battle.
Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth
He saves us from Gods anger and his anger is sure to come
Everyone has sinned. No one measures up to God’s glory.
So put to death anything that comes from sinful desires
May the grace shown by the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. May the love that God has given us be with you?  And may the sharing of life brought about by the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Point out these things to the brothers and sisters.
“I will call those who are not my people ‘my people.’
So they will quickly destroy themselves
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces But the stone will crush anyone it falls on
If that home welcomes you give it your blessing of peace If it does not dont bless it
God is true even if every human being is a liar
I am counting on you
Agrippa said to Paul, “You may now present your case.”
What you have just said is very true.”
Many are not circumcised physically, but they obey the law. They will prove that you are guilty. You are breaking the law, even though you have the written law and are circumcised.
I am okay
Cornelius answered Three days ago at this very hour I was in my house praying It was three oclock in the afternoon Suddenly a man in shining clothes stood in front of me
I must be leaving now
Here is the meaning of the mystery of the seven stars you saw in my right hand.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who believes in me will do the works I have been doing.
They tell about how you are waiting for his Son to come from heaven.
He would not allow them to speak because they knew he was the Messiah
Each gate was made out of a single pearl.
He suffered shame because of Christ. He thought it had great value. Moses considered it better than the riches of Egypt. He was looking ahead to his reward.
He learned that Jesus was from Herods area of authority So Pilate sent Jesus to Herod At that time Herod was also in Jerusalem
More than fourty of them are waiting in hiding to attack him. They have promised that they will not eat or drink anything until they have killed him. They are ready now.
Greet one another with a holy kiss
This saying is true So give a strong warning to people who refuse to obey God Then they will understand the faith correctly
Jesus Heals a Disabled Woman on the Sabbath Day
They wondered what would happen next
Brothers and sisters, what if someone is caught in a sin? Then you who live by the Spirit should correct that person.
Those who belong to the earth are like the one who came from the earth. And those who are spiritual are like the heavenly man.
Jesus said, “You have now seen him. In fact, he is the one speaking with you.”
Another person thinks all days are the same.
Brothers and sisters you are loved by God We know that he has chosen you
Instead they are the children God promised to him They are the ones considered to be Abrahams children
He has a message to bring to you You and your whole family will be saved through it
But he gives grace to those who are humble
And anyone who doesn’t love their brother
Peter asked her How could you agree to test the Spirit of the Lord
No more than two or three people should speak in another language. And they should speak one at a time.
Before I knew about the law I was alive But then the commandment came Sin came to life and I died
You have heard how I lived earlier in my Jewish way of life. With all my strength I attacked the church of God. I tried to destroy it.
So they got into a boat and left.
We know that people everywhere are talking against those who believe as you do
The chief priests picked up the coins. They said, “It’s against the law to put this money into the temple fund. It is blood money. It has paid for a man’s death.”
John the Baptist Prepares the Way
I will try very hard to see that you do.
Did what is good cause me to die
But who are you to judge your neighbor
And buy from me healing lotion to put on your eyes.
“You unbelieving people!” Jesus replied. “How long do I have to stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you? Bring the boy to me.”
Arent you the Egyptian who turned some of our people against their leaders Didnt you lead four thousend terrorists out into the desert some time ago
No one trusts in God.
A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho Robbers attacked himThey stripped off his clothes and beat him
Then out of his mouth the serpent spit water like a river He wanted to catch the woman and sweep her away in the flood
Everyone will hate you because of me But the one who remains strong in the faith will be saved
The crowd joined the attack against Paul and Silas.
Then they are perfect. They are able to keep their whole body under control.
So did his sons and his livestock
Blind people receive sight. Disabled people walk. Those who have skin diseases are made ‘clean.’ Deaf people hear. Those who are dead are raised to life. And the good news is preached to those who are poor.
You died.
“Don’t do that!
Jesus replied, “Go back to John. Report to him what you hear and see.
God is full of grace. From him we have all received grace in place of the grace already given.
But suppose people have something that might be used to help their parents. You allow them to say it is instead ‘a gift set apart for God.’
These works are a witness that the Father has sent me
The official said to Philip, “Tell me, please. Who is the prophet talking about? Himself, or someone else?”
He will be a joy and delight to you
When the president arrived at Gerad Wilwal airport in Jigjiga city, he was warmly welcomed by Somali regional head Mustafa Muhammad and other senior leaders of the region.
will be called a prophet of the Most High God
Blessed is the person who keeps on going when times are hard.
Im cold
The leaders saw how bold Peter and John were.
On their heads they wore something like crowns of gold.
Each of the four living creatures had six wings.Each creature was covered all over with eyes.
Saul was also known as Paul. He was filled with the Holy Spirit. He looked straight at Elymas.
So make sure that the light inside you is not darkness
My spirit delights in God my Savior.
Was this man born blind because he sinned? Or did his parents sin?”
Not everyone in Abrahams family line is really his child
We remember you when we pray to our God and Father Your work is produced by your faith Your service is the result of your love Your strength to continue comes from your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ
It was the first time a list was made of the people while Quirinius was governor of Syria.
In just one hour your great wealth has been destroyed
Because of what God has done, you belong to Christ Jesus.
smoke
Is anyone among you in trouble? Then that person should pray. Is anyone among you happy? Then that person should sing songs of praise.
If you dont you also will be cut off
Anyone you forgive I also forgive Was there anything to forgive If so I have forgiven it for your benefit knowing that Christ is watching
Greet my dear friend Persis She is another woman who has worked very hard for the Lord
I wont need any help
Now that he lives, he lives in the power of God.
He had said, “I have not lost anyone God has given me.”
There he reported the date when the days of cleansing would end At that time the proper offering would be made for each of them
Jesus replied Havent you read that in the beginning the Creator made them male and female
to heal those who were sick.
So there was great joy in that city.
Jesus ordered the people not to tell anyone But the more he did so the more they kept talking about it
The commander said it was true. So Pilate gave the body to Joseph.
But what if these things don’t describe someone at all? Then that person can’t see very well. In fact, they are blind. They have forgotten that their past sins have been washed away.
So will the sailors
My soul is troubled
He kept part of the money for himself Sapphira knew he had kept it He brought the rest of it and put it down at the apostles feet
While Jesus was still speaking, a crowd came up. The man named Judas was leading them. He was one of the  disciples. Judas approached Jesus to kiss him.
After looking at themselves they leave And right away they forget what they look like
“Do not be amazed at this.
The same amount you give will be measured out to you
From Perga they went on to Pisidian Antioch. On the Sabbath day they entered the synagogue and sat down.
There will no longer be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city. God’s servants will serve him.
It is written that Abraham had two sons The slave woman gave birth to one of them The free woman gave birth to the other one
He was with God in the beginning.
He has given me power to do signs and wonders. I can do these things by the power of the Spirit of God.
Going on from there, he saw two other brothers. They were James, son of Zebedee, and his brother John. They were in a boat with their father Zebedee. As they were preparing their nets, Jesus called out to them.
They asked, “What? Are we blind too?”
you belong to God.
Think about the results of their way of life.
He is coming to judge everyone. He is coming to sentence all of them. He will judge them for all the ungodly acts they have done.
This is apparently why the Ethiopian Maker and Employer Institute consistently proposes to the government the question of whether workers taxes will be reduced።
Right away Jesus knew what they were thinking So he said to them Why are you thinking these things
So God let them continue to have their shameful desires. Their women committed sexual acts that were not natural.
True teaching agrees with the good news about the glory of the blessed God
In fact none of the seven left any children Last of all the woman died too
it will not be taken away from her
He asked them again, “Who do you want?”
Instead be filled with the Holy Spirit
The disciples came to him They asked Why do you use stories when you speak to the people
When it was full, the fishermen pulled it up on the shore. Then they sat down and gathered the good fish into baskets. But they threw the bad fish away.
Just then Jesus’ disciples returned. They were surprised to find him talking with a woman. But no one asked, “What do you want from her?” No one asked, “Why are you talking with her?”
The Lord is coming soon.
And if they are chosen by grace, then they can’t work for it.
Is anyone among you sick Then that person should send for the elders of the church to pray over them They should ask the elders to anoint them with olive oil in the name of the Lord
Then the sheep of the flock will be scattered
They were untying the colt when its owners came The owners asked them Why are you untying the colt
The Lord saved his people.
He heard that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. So he began to shout, “Jesus! Son of David! Have mercy on me!”
No, I train my body and bring it under control. Then after I have preached to others, I myself will not break the rules. If I did break them, I would fail to win the prize.
Not even the highest places or the lowest or anything else in all creation can separate us Nothing at all can ever separate us from Gods love Thats because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done
Faith in Jesus has healed him completely You can see it with your own eyes
But if I do judge, what I decide is true. This is because I am not alone.
That was what I had wanted to do all along.
A man should not cover his head He is the likeness and glory of God
Jesus Prays on the Mount of Olives
No, here is what the prophet Joel meant.
My brothers and sisters when you come together to eat you should all eat together
Pour her a double dose of what she has poured for others.
You too should watch out for him. He strongly opposed our message.
God Has Given Us New Life Through Christ
“Have I said something wrong?” Jesus replied. “If I have, then tell everyone what it was.
Remain in Gods Love
Now we really live, because you are standing firm in the Lord.
Let us be completely holy We want to honor God
Then he took a cup He gave thanks and handed it to them All of them drank from it
They came back from the tomb. They told all these things to the  apostles and to all the others.
But Paul didn’t think it was wise to take him. Mark had deserted them in Pamphylia.
But all this has happened so that the words of the prophets would come true.” Then all the disciples left him and ran away.
The temple was filled with smoke that came from the glory and power of God No one could enter the temple at that time They had to wait until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed
A person’s body without their spirit is dead.
In fact it is just the opposite God has approved us to preach He has trusted us with the good news
Be calm
Those who sleep sleep at night
and wisdom be given to our God for ever and ever
The Roman commander and those guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened. They were terrified. They exclaimed, “He was surely the Son of God!”
But they will never follow a stranger. In fact, they will run away from him. They don’t recognize a stranger’s voice.”
But do not measure the outer courtyard. That’s because it has been given to the Gentiles. They will take over the holy city for fourty two months.
Wisdom like this doesnt come down from heaven It belongs to the earth It doesnt come from the Holy Spirit It comes from the devil
Dont be like that Instead anyone who wants to be important among you must be your servant
Some of the people who were there said to Jesus Johns disciples often pray and go without eating
I say this because many people have tried to fool others. These people have gone out into the world.
He welcomed all who came to see him.
Each gate was made out of a single pearl
Who is this, please?
The good news was announced to our people of long ago. It has also been preached to us. The message they heard didn’t have any value for them. That’s because they didn’t share the faith of those who obeyed.
The men came to Jesus
A third of all people were killed by the three plagues of fire
Mary was very upset because of his words. She wondered what kind of greeting this could be.
Eliezer was the son of Jorim
Many who believed now came and openly admitted what they had done
This will happen before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord.
I didnt come to judge the world I came to save the world
You will shine as you hold on tight to the word of life Then I will be able to boast about you on the day Christ returns I can be happy that I didnt run or work for nothing
They saw he was a special child
I know that you were concerned But you had no chance to show it
“Anyone who comes to me must hate their father and mother. They must hate their wife and children.
Then I looked and heard the voice of millions and millions of angels They surrounded the throne They surrounded the living creatures and the elders
Iconium
It is written that
Christ is the head of the body.
It is written I chose Jacob instead of Esau
Abel had faith. So he brought to God a better offering than Cain did. Because of his faith Abel was praised as a godly man. God said good things about his offerings. Because of his faith Abel still speaks. He speaks even though he is dead.
I looked, and there in front of me was a white cloud.
Do I mean that a statue of a god is anything
Also, man was not created for woman. Woman was created for man.
I am a man.
The person who says this is the great enemy of Christ. They say no to the Father and the Son.
he remains faithful.He must be true to himself.
But he wasn’t seen by all the people.
A written sign had been placed above him It readThis is the King of the Jews
Then Jesus said to the Roman commander, “Go! It will be done just as you believed it would.” And his servant was healed at that moment.
if a virgin marries someone, she has not sinned.
“Take some guards with you,” Pilate answered. “Go. Make the tomb as secure as you can.”
We who have strong faith should help the weak with their problems. We should not please only ourselves.
Greet Urbanus. He works together with me in serving Christ. And greet my dear friend Stachys.
I ate a hasty lunch.
But he was made king and returned home Then he sent for the slaves he had given the money to He wanted to find out what they had earned with it
I saw a light coming from heaven. It was brighter than the sun. It was shining around me and my companions.
The kings of the earth took part in her evil ways
It was about noon on Preparation Day in Passover Week.
The rest said, “Leave him alone. Let’s see if Elijah comes to save him.”
But they still didn’t turn away from what they had been doing.
A royal official was there. His son was sick in bed at Capernaum.
And we announce to you this same eternal life
Christ did not enter a sacred tent made with human hands. That tent was only a copy of the true one. He entered heaven itself. He did it to stand in front of God for us. He is there right now.
And sometimes those who arent circumcised do what the law requires Wont God accept them as if they had been circumcised
I ran a race with him.
May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with Gods people Amen
still they have hated both me and my Father.
But there are some other Jews who should be here in front of you. They are from Asia Minor. They should bring charges if they have anything against me.
James son of Alphaeus Simon the Zealot and Judas son of James
From there we traveled to Philippi, a Roman colony.
I, John, am a believer like you.
The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air
Then the law that joins her to him no longer applies
Don’t fight about what the law teaches.
After looking at themselves, they leave. And right away they forget what they look like.
Here is how God showed his love among us He sent his one and only Son into the world He sent him so we could receive life through him
They must look for peace and
But rules like these dont help They dont stop people from chasing after sinful pleasures
The Word became a human being.
Jesus went up on a mountainside He called for certain people to come to him and they came
“It is one of you,” Jesus replied. “It is the one who dips bread into the bowl with me.
The beast I saw looked like a leopard. But it had feet like a bear and a mouth like a lion. The dragon gave the beast his power, his throne, and great authority.
You think youre helping blind people You think you are a light for those in the dark
I will try it again.
He answered, “Haven’t you ever read about what David did? He and his men were hungry. They needed food.
Others have done the hard work.
She welcomed him into her home
I the elder am writing this letterI am sending it to you my dear friend Gaius I love you because of the truth
We know that he has chosen you.
He was, and he is, and he will come.”
We want you to give thanks with joy to the Father. He has made you fit to have what he will give to all his holy people. You will all receive a share in the kingdom of light.
Hello, Abrham.
I heard a sound from heaven It was like the roar of rushing waters and loud thunder The sound I heard was like the music of harps being played
So I am sending you prophets wise people and teachers You will kill some of them You will nail some to a cross Others you will whip in your synagogues You will chase them from town to town
I didnt do it alone
They were amazed at him
God wisely planned that the world would not know him through its own wisdom It pleased God to use the foolish things we preach to save those who believe
They did it in keeping with the Law
Some young men came and wrapped up his body. They carried him out and buried him.
Let us keep looking to Jesus. He is the one who started this journey of faith. And he is the one who completes the journey of faith. He paid no attention to the shame of the cross. He suffered there because of the joy he was looking forward to. Then he sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
There were James, son of Zebedee, and his brother John. Jesus gave them the name Boanerges. Boanerges means Sons of Thunder.
I did not order this.
But Diotrephes will not welcome us He loves to be the first in everything
Stop sinning or something worse may happen to you
Moses’ parents had faith. So they hid him for three months after he was born. They saw he was a special child. They were not afraid of the king’s command.
But they could not get him close to Jesus because of the crowd. So they made a hole by digging through the roof above Jesus. Then they lowered the man through it on a mat.
All food is “clean.”
Then they asked him Where is your father
But for us there is only one God He is the Father All things came from him and we live for him
The disciples asked him Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah has to come first
The last were Simon the Zealot and Judas Iscariot Judas was the one who was later going to hand Jesus over to his enemies
Your heart is not right with God
We are sending this letter to you, the members of the churches in Galatia.
A husband also must love his wife. He must love her just as he loves himself.
There we greeted the brothers and sisters.
Every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices.
you are not Caesar’s friend! Anyone who claims to be a king is against Caesar!”
Crowds Follow Jesus
The thoughts of a person ruled by sin bring death.
The crowd there heard the voice. Some said it was thunder.
Final Greetings
We belong to God.
“After this, God gave them judges until the time of Samuel the prophet.
I cleared the table
They all drank the same spiritual water
The Coming of God’s Kingdom
God is working in you He wants your plans and your acts to fulfill his good purpose
The story of Sekota city
Listen! I am telling you a mystery. We will not all die. But we will all be changed.
Then I will come to you with joy just as God has planned We will be renewed by being together
They found the stone rolled away from it
The words we speak to those who have grown in the faith are wise. Our words are different from the wisdom of this world. Our words are different from those of the rulers of this world. These rulers are becoming less and less powerful.
Jesus was in the temple courtyard walking in Solomon’s Porch.
Dear friends let us love one another because love comes from God Everyone who loves has become a child of God and knows God
When Jesus said this he called out Whoever has ears should listen
But God knows your hearts What people think is worth a lot is hated by God
But here is what I tell you Love your enemies Pray for those who hurt you
Follow the lead of one another because of your respect for Christ.
And that is not all. We are full of joy in God because of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of him, God has brought us back to himself.
But the wound had been healed.
They wondered why he stayed there so long.
Then here is what I want you to remember Anyone who keeps a sinner from going astray will save them from death
I thank God that I speak in other languages more than all of you do.
“Nothing,” they answered.
Then another sign appeared in heaven It was a huge red dragon It had seven heads and ten horns On its seven heads it wore seven crowns
When he received these orders, he put Paul and Silas deep inside the prison. He fastened their feet so they couldn’t get away.
Did he becomes right with God because of something he did If so he could brag about it But he couldnt brag to God
“Look! I am coming soon! Words of prophecy are written in this book. Blessed is the person who obeys them.”
He listened as Paul spoke. Paul looked right at him. He saw that the man had faith to be healed.
By the law, I died as far as the law is concerned. I died so that I might live for God.
Be kind
Also, “king of Salem” means “king of peace.”
Jesus said to them Why are you troubled Why do you have doubts in your minds
“Blessed are those
“We found the jail locked up tight,” they said.
But if you are led by the Spirit you are not under the authority of the law
Someone asked him Lord are only a few people going to be saved He said to them
And he gave her his promise He said to her Anything you ask for I will give you Ill give you up to half my kingdom
Even when I was in Thessalonica you sent me help when I needed it And you did it more than once
I get you.
He welcomed them and spoke to them about God’s kingdom.
Jesus and his disciples went to a place called Gethsemane. Jesus said to them, “Sit here while I pray.”
He took the blind man by the hand. Then he led him outside the village. He spit on the man’s eyes and placed his hands on him. “Do you see anything?” Jesus asked.
When the members of the Sanhedrin heard this, they became very angry. They were so angry they ground their teeth at Stephen.
In fact, that’s what you are doing.
He meant Judas the son of Simon Iscariot
Jesus took the five loaves and the two fish He looked up to heaven and gave thanks He broke them into pieces
Go away!
You have heard me teach in front of many witnesses Pass on to people you can trust the things youve heard me say Then they will be able to teach others also
He will also announce my name to the people of Israel
Since the millionaire was sixtin years old in the Faremens nigniteen tirty three they have also failed twennty six times despite taking the university entrance exam።
Jesus heard what had happened to John He wanted to be alone So he went in a boat to a quiet place The crowds heard about this They followed him on foot from the towns
One day about three oclock in the afternoon he had a vision He saw clearly an angel of God The angel came to him and said Cornelius
So he went to the man who took care of the vineyard.
And you have seen Abraham
Brothers and sisters I no longer preach that people must be circumcised If I did why am I still being opposed
In the same way the tongue is a small part of a persons body
So he ordered that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked Peter to stay with them for a few days.
He loves our nation and has built our synagogue.”
“My son, think of the Lord’s training as important.
Take your money and go. I want to give the one I hired last the same pay I gave you.
I have written it to encourage you.
It also belongs to her husband
Then he put his hands on her Right away she stood up straight and praised God
He said to her Dear woman your faith has healed you Go in peace You are free from your suffering
He will run away from you.
But the seed on good soil stands for those with an honest and good heart
They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun.
A slave has no lasting place in the family
Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered brings shame on his head.
Become my servants and learn from me I am gentle and free of pride You will find rest for your souls
He went to him poured olive oil and wine on his wounds and bandaged them
Is that blessing only for those who are circumcised?
At that same time there was a powerful earthquake. A tenth of the city crumbled and fell. In the earthquake, seven thousend people were killed. Those who lived through it were terrified. They gave glory to the God of heaven.
I believed that I should oppose the name of Jesus of Nazareth So I did everything I could to oppose his name
You were enemies in your minds because of your evil ways
I am engaged to her
Then that servant will receive a heavy beating.
He will bring you into his heavenly glory without any fault He will bring you there with great joy
I am a witness about me. The other witness about me is the Father, who sent me.”
At one time you were dead in your sins. Your desires controlled by sin were not circumcised.
If I preach because I have to, I’m only doing my duty.
He has sent me so that the blind will see again.
A large crowd of tax collectors and others were eating with them
I will eat with that person and they will eat with me
Jesus knew all about the Pharisees plans So he left that place A large crowd followed him and he healed all who were sick
Lord Jesus
Let us hold firmly to the hope we claim to have.
I pray to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is the glorious Father.
He went to him, poured olive oil and wine on his wounds and bandaged them. Then he put the man on his own donkey. He brought him to an inn and took care of him.
How can we thank God enough for you? We thank God because of all the joy we have in his presence. We have this joy because of you.
You know about my faith
A farmer went out to plant his seed
Am I now trying to get people to think well of me?
When you come bring my coat I left it with Carpus at Troas Also bring my books Most of all bring the ones made out of animal skins
The heavens are the work of your hands.
The king stood up
“No!” she said. “He must be called John.”
But the Lord said to Ananias, “Go! I have chosen this man to work for me.
the teachers of the law met in Jerusalem
Then the man sent other slaves to the renters He sent more than he did the first time The renters treated them the same way
Suppose someone refuses to accept our teaching.
No one gave it to me No one taught it to me Instead I received it from Jesus Christ He showed it to me
Again here is what I tell you Suppose two of you on earth agree about anything you ask for My Father in heaven will do it for you
The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea.
Then Jesus left the area of Tyre and went through Sidon. He went down to the Sea of Galilee and into the area known as the Ten Cities.
A Woman Pours Perfume on Jesus at Bethany
Being circumcised means nothing Being uncircumcised means nothing Doing what God commands is what counts
They have supplied me with what you couldn’t give me.
You are the proof that I am the Lords apostle
So how can we keep on sinning
They certainly know what I said.”
Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees he said Wait until we mark with this seal the foreheads of those who serve our God
Follow us.
But you do not believe what he wrote. So how are you going to believe what I say?”
His brother Philip was the ruler ofIturea and Traconitis.
But Jesus walked right through the crowd and went on his way
Your relative Elizabeth will have a child even though she is old
The Lord has given each of us our own work to do
and your people who honor you.
Right away an angel of the Lord struck Herod down Herod had not given praise to God
But I didnt do the work Gods grace was with me
So be joyful you heavens
Cry and
A crowd came together when they heard the sound.
How terrible!
Thats because he taught like one who had authority He did not speak like their teachers of the law
Dont you know that just a little yeast makes the whole batch of dough rise
More than  billons of offense were lost ።
Then he told her That was a good reply You may go The demon has left your daughter
“Learn a lesson from the fig tree. As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near.
The people of the island honored us in many ways
They try to fool others No one does these things more than the circumcision group
Serving Under the New Covenant
Anyone who has my commands and obeys them loves me My Father will love the one who loves me I too will love them And I will show myself to them
In the same way when you see these things happening you know that the end is near It is right at the door
to heal those who were sick
Sir they said he already has ten times as much
“You must prophesy again about many peoples, and kings.”
Night and day I thank God for you Night and day I always remember you in my prayers
Moths have eaten your clothes.
Every good and perfect gift is from God This kind of gift comes down from the Father who created the heavenly lights These lights create shadows that move But the Father does not change like these shadows
You have heard that the spirit of the great enemy of Christ is coming.
It stirs up trouble all the time among people whose minds are twisted by sin. The truth they once had has been taken away from them. They think they can get rich by being godly.
Do not live like people who arent wise Live like people who are wise
Little Children Are Brought to Jesus
Matthew,Thomas,James, son of Alphaeus,Simon who was called the Zealot
There were some Greeks among the people who went up to worship during the feast
We have a high priest who can feel it when we are weak and hurting
Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts what God says about him. Whoever does not believe God is calling him a liar. That’s because they have not believed what God said about his Son.
He heard a voice speak to him, “Saul! Saul! Why are you opposing me?”
The believers there had heard we were coming.
The God that Abraham believed in gives life to the dead Abrahams God also creates things that did not exist before
A leader must be free from blame. He must be faithful to his wife. In anything he does, he must not go too far. He must control himself. He must be worthy of respect. He must welcome people into his home. He must be able to teach.
His spirit became very sad and he was troubled
But we dont belong to the people who pull back and are destroyed We belong to the people who believe and are saved
But some Jews were making plans against him. So he decided to go back through Macedonia.
We know what it means to have respect for the Lord. So we try to help other people to understand it. What we are is plain to God. I hope it is also plain to your way of thinking.
He prayed to the God who could save him from death.
Those who have died believing in Christ are also lost.
Its late
But they didnt hear it
Then you may pray.
He planned to bring both Jews and Gentiles back to God as one body. He planned to do this through the cross. On that cross, Christ put to death their hatred toward one another.
But he has lifted up people who are not considered important
‘Whoever has ears should listen to what the Holy Spirit says to the churches.
But suppose the servant does not know his master’s wishes. And suppose the servant does things for which he should be punished. He will receive a lighter beating. Much will be required of everyone who has been given much. Even more will be asked of the person who is supposed to take care of much.
My brothers and sisters, you are believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. So treat everyone the same.
No, here is what the prophet Joel meant.
I held firmly to the teachings passed down by my people.
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this witness for the churches.
I will do away with the cleverness of those who think they are so smart
The grass dries up. The flowers fall to the ground.
He is held back so that he can make his appearance at the right time
Do not test the Lord your God
I will be in them, just as you are in me. This is so that they may be brought together perfectly as one. Then the world will know that you sent me. It will also show the world that you have loved those you gave me, just as you have loved me.
Jesus Clears Out the Temple
As his children, we will receive all that he has for us. We will share what Christ receives. But we must share in his sufferings if we want to share in his glory.
We are being treated badly
The people came out of the town and made their way toward Jesus.
What we know now is not complete. What we prophesy now is not perfect.
A man in the crowd called out.
At the merchant, however, it was understood that the grain required by the increase of two bucks was one that could be soldered according to the person's ability ።
Part of Israel has refused to obey God That will continue until the full number of Gentiles has entered Gods kingdom
So you will be considered worthy to enter Gods kingdom
Paul went into the synagogue as he usually did.
When he had given thanks he broke it He said This is my body It is given for you
They asked him Rabbi when did you get here
A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside.
Not even Solomon in his royal robes was dressed like one of those flowers.
Jesus Washes His Disciples’ Feet
We know it when we love God and obey his commands
“I always taught in synagogues or at the temple, where all the Jews come together.
All this is from God He brought us back to himself through Christs death on the cross And he has given us the task of bringing others back to him through Christ
They sent their gift to the elders through Barnabas and Saul.
time came for making Mary “clean” as required by the Law of Moses.
I am not the Messiah I was sent ahead of him
Some were killed with stones Some were sawed in two Some were killed by swords They went around wearing the skins of sheep and goats They were poor They were attacked They were treated badly
No one in the field should go back to get their coat.
I tell you you will not see me again until you say Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord
But being godly has value in every way
As he was going into a village, ten men met him. They had a skin disease. They were standing close by.
This is so that they may be brought together perfectly as one.
There were three gates on the east and three on the north There were three gates on the south and three on the west
No one can lay any other foundation than what has already been laid.
He said, “Father, if you are willing, take this cup of suffering away from me. But do what you want, not what I want.”
See how the farmer waits for the land to produce its rich crop
What you have said in the dark will be heard in the daylight. What you have whispered to someone behind closed doors will be shouted from the rooftops.
The king is familiar with these things
she told them that he had said these things to her
A widow lived in that town. She came to the judge again and again. She kept begging him, ‘Make things right for me. Someone is treating me badly.’
Then they asked Jesus, “Why do the teachers of the law say that Elijah has to come first?”
Also bring my books Most of all bring the ones made out of animal skins
My dear friends dont try to get even Leave room for God to show his anger It is written I am the God who judges people I will pay them back  says the Lord
the door will be opened to the one who knocks.
It doesn’t pretend to be what it is not.
After a little while, those standing nearby said to Peter, “You must be one of them. You are from Galilee.”
This is the very reason I have come to this point in my life
I was dead
No father Abraham he said But if someone from the dead goes to them they will turn away from their sins
has become the most important stone of all.”
Dont pay back evil with evil
Everything God created is good. You shouldn’t turn anything down. Instead, you should thank God for it.
We firmly believe that a person is made right with God because of their faith They are not saved by obeying the law
I am a sinful man
He answered  Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul
Judas, who was going to hand Jesus over, had arranged a signal with them. “The one I kiss is the man,” he said. “Arrest him.”
Didn’t the Messiah have to suffer these things and then receive his glory?”
Then I was told
The Story of the Good Samaritan
Be joyful together with Gods people
Dont you remember the seven loaves for the  Dont you remember how many baskets of pieces you gathered
“Do not commit adultery.” “Do not commit murder.” “Do not steal.”“Do not want what belongs to others.”
Your gold and silver have lost their brightness. Their dullness will be a witness against you. Your wanting more and more will eat your body like fire. You have stored up riches in these last days.
I like dragon fruit
And they will be my people
Suppose someone comes to you and doesn’t teach these truths. Then don’t take them into your house or welcome them.
Even though you have not seen him you love him Though you do not see him now you believe in him You are filled with a glorious joy that cant be put into words
If this were not true would I have told you that I am going there
So he and his whole family became believers.
They recognized him as the same man who used to sit and beg at the temple gate called Beautiful.
I answered Sir you know
The Story of Ten Bridesmaids
There is great value in every way!
I am sending this letter to you, the twelve tribes scattered among the nations.
We loved you so much.
People worshiped the dragon, because he had given authority to the beast.They also worshiped the beast.
Now Jesus is Prince and Savior. God has proved this by giving Jesus a place of honor with him. He did it to turn Israel away from their sins and forgive them.
But the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared.
They didn’t worship the Creator.
Be kind and tender to one another. Forgive one another, just as God forgave you because of what Christ has done.
Follow the lead of every human authority. Do this for the Lord’s sake. Obey the emperor. He is the highest authority.
He would know what kind of woman she is She is a sinner
Whoever tries to keep their life will lose it Whoever loses their life will keep it
But while everyone was sleeping his enemy came The enemy planted weeds among the wheat and then went away
An elder must be without blame. He must be faithful to his wife. His children must be believers. They must not give anyone a reason to say that they are wild and don’t obey.
“Brothers and fathers,” Paul began, “listen to me now. I want to give you reasons for my actions.”
Some Pharisees and some teachers of the law came from Jerusalem to see Jesus.
There will be no rest for anyone who receives the mark of its name
who is my neighbor
The wall was made out of jasper. The city was made out of pure gold, as pure as glass.
Instead they put it on a stand Then those who come in can see its light
Isn’t he also the God of Gentiles?
Large numbers of people came to know the Lord
There are also heavenly bodies as well as earthly bodies. Heavenly bodies have one kind of glory. Earthly bodies have another.
Again he said he was not.
They love to be greeted with respect in the markets They love it when people call them Rabbi
Then Jesus’ disciples said, “Now you are speaking plainly. You are using examples that are clear.
His concerns pull him in two directions. A single woman or a virgin is concerned about the Lord’s matters. She wants to serve the Lord with both body and spirit. But a married woman is concerned about the matters of this world. She wants to know how she can please her husband.
When he has done that the Son also will be under Gods rule God put everything under the Son In that way God will be all in all
Brothers and sisters, here is what I’m telling you. Bodies made of flesh and blood can’t share in the kingdom of God. And what dies can’t share in what never dies.
power
“Don’t be afraid. Just believe. She will be healed.”
Jesus was aware that his disciples were complaining about his teaching. So he said to them, “Does this upset you?
They are born only to be caught and destroyed
Jesus turned and said to them Daughters of Jerusalem do not weep for me Weep for yourselves and for your children
It isnt possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins
You can be sure that I live says the Lord
Rebekah’s children were born at the same time by the same father. He was our father Isaac.
Before faith in Christ came; we were guarded by the law.
Christ is pure All who hope to be like him make themselves pure
Jesus also said Here is what Gods kingdom is like A farmer scatters seed on the ground
Even though the doors were locked Jesus came in and stood among them He said May peace be with you
After that have nothing to do with them
It said,“
But Abraham replied Son remember what happened in your lifetime You received your good things Lazarus received bad things Now he is comforted here and you are in terrible pain
Didnt God consider even Rahab the prostitute to be right with him Thats because of what she did for the spies She gave them a place to stay Then she sent them off in a different direction
All his insides spilled out.
Peter and John Are Taken to the Sanhedrin
It is written God catches wise people in their own evil plans
At just the right time Christ died for ungodly people. He died for us when we had no power of our own.
Blind Pharisee First clean the inside of the cup and dish Then the outside will also be clean
Our God is like a fire that burns everything up
But the Jews who refused to believe stirred up some of the Gentiles who were there They turned them against the two men and the new believers
A man who had a skin disease came to Jesus. On his knees he begged Jesus. He said, “If you are willing to make me ‘clean,’ you can do it.”
So Jesus said again What Im about to tell you is true
Heal the sick people who are there.
He did the same thing with the fish.
You put up with that woman Jezebel She calls herself a prophet
When God made his promise to Abraham, God gave his word. There was no one greater than himself to promise by. So he promised by making an appeal to himself.
Judas and Silas were prophets. They said many things to give strength and hope to the believers.
“But Rabbi,” they said, “a short time ago the Jews there tried to kill you with stones.
I owe you ten dollars
They didn’t think it was important to know God. So God let them continue to have evil thoughts. They did things they shouldn’t do.
That friend is the Spirit of truth
Our people have always worshiped on this mountain
I was on the island of Patmos because I taught Gods word and what Jesus said
Be nice
They have not known my ways.’
dressed in fine linen, purple and bright red!
Jesus stopped and called out to them What do you want me to do for you he asked
Hang on
People who don’t believe might say you are doing wrong.
All the people came to the temple early in the morning. They wanted to hear Jesus speak.
Have respect for God
You do not know him. But I know him. If I said I did not, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him. And I obey his word.
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates.
I am very happy
“How can I?” he said. “I need someone to explain it to me.”
He did this when he spoke through David a long time later
He is my only child.
So dont worship statues of gods as some of them did It is written The people sat down to eat and drink Then they got up to dance wildly in front of their god
Ive become wealthy and dont need anything
I think youre stupid
He went straight into the tomb
Be sure that no one misses out on God’s grace. See to it that a bitter plant doesn’t grow up. If it does, it will cause trouble. And it will make many people impure.
And God is joined to them
Jesus heard what they were saying He told the synagogue leader Dont be afraid Just believe
“What do you think? Suppose a man owns one hundred sheep and one of them wanders away. Won’t he leave the nighnity nine sheep on the hills? Won’t he go and look for the one that wandered off?
You can share in it because youve escaped from the evil in the world This evil is caused by sinful desires
But make sure that in your hearts you honor Christ as Lord.
He will put the sheep to his right and the goats to his left
But only a few of them will be saved
I am glad I can have complete faith in you.
Rachel is crying over her children
But there is only one body
listen to me
They will say, “Where is this ‘return’ he promised?
One day an authority on the law stood up to test Jesus
They promise to give freedom to these new believers.
Do you want to be slaves to them all over again?
“But the first servant refused. Instead, he went and had the man thrown into prison. The man would be held there until he could pay back what he owed.
Jesus said to them Havent you ever read what the Scriptures say
In the past he let all nations go their own way
“Jacob’s sons were jealous of their brother Joseph. So they sold him as a slave. He was taken to Egypt. But God was with him.
Events on Cyprus
Jesus returned the third time He said to them Are you still sleeping and resting Enough The hour has come Look The Son of Man is about to be handed over to sinners
Tell the older men that in anything they do, they must not go too far. They must be worthy of respect.
still they have hated both me and my Father
He told them to ask Jesus to come and heal his servant.
The living Father sent me, and I live because of him. In the same way, those who feed on me will live because of me.
Greet my dear friend Persis. She is another woman who has worked very hard for the Lord.
her child was taken up to God and to his throne.
But he commanded them to be quiet
Only he has seen the Father
The crowds listened to Philip
And it didnt rain on the land for three and a half years
Their eyes were opened and they recognized him But then he disappeared from their sight
Then the Pharisees replied, “When you were born, you were already deep in sin. How dare you talk like that to us!” And they threw him out of the synagogue.
Im sorry
What if we keep sinning on purpose What if we do it even after we know the truth Then there is no offering for our sins
While Joseph and Mary were there, the time came for the child to be born.
“Which of the two sons did what his father wanted?”
The people of today are evil he said
Two blind men were sitting by the side of the road They heard that Jesus was going by So they shouted Lord Son of David Have mercy on us
They stood still and their faces were sad
At sunset, people brought to Jesus all who were sick. He placed his hands on each one and healed them.
Here’s how we know that we are joined to him and he to us. He has given us his Holy Spirit.
If anyone serves
Christ died for our sins just as Scripture said he would
So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God by believing in Christ.
Would I have told you that I would prepare a place for you there
Long ago our people ate the manna in the desert. It is written in Scripture,
The city of Babylon made all the nations drink the strong wine of her terrible sins
we know that you are a teacher who has come from God. We know that God is with you.
Didn’t anyone else return and give praise to God except this outsider?”
tell me something.
Let us talk openly about our faith in him. Then our words will be like an offering to God.
His children must be believers
Anyone who speaks in a language they had not known before doesnt speak to people They speak only to God In fact no one understands them What they say by the Spirit remains a mystery
Jesus told his disciples a story He wanted to show them that they should always pray and not give up
He let only Peter James and John the brother of James follow him
In just one hour she has been destroyed
And what is Paul
We know that Scripture is always true. God spoke to some people and called them ‘gods.’
Speak and act like people who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom
Im writing to you because you know the one who is from the beginning
Through faith in Jesus we have received God’s grace. In that grace we stand.
Luke Writes an Orderly Report
“Teacher,” he asked, “which is the most important commandment in the Law?”
But God showed me mercy anyway. I did those things without knowing any better. I wasn’t a believer.
The stone the builders didnt accept
But the seed that fell on good soil is like those who hear the message and understand it They produce a crop   or  times more than the farmer planted
“Now I trust God to take care of you. I commit you to the message about his grace. It can build you up. Then you will share in what God plans to give all his people.
“How terrible it will be for you Pharisees!
He likes watching TV.
Eat the bodies of all people,
Scripture says,“He didn’t commit any sin.
But you don’t realize how pitiful and miserable you have become.
Then they returned to Galilee
I do not get rid of the grace of God What if a person could become right with God by obeying the law Then Christ died for nothing
Now then, who are you to judge your brother or sister?
The men of Nineveh will stand up on judgment day with the people now living
What Im about to tell you is true Jesus answered
God’s Armor for Believers
Let us talk openly about our faith in him Then our words will be like an offering to God
A change of the priestly system requires a change of law.
I have heard their groans
You have even failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields.
The beast opened its mouth to speak evil things against God It told lies about God and about the place where God lives And it told lies about those who live in heaven with him
I long to see you I want to make you strong by giving you a gift from the Holy Spirit
No, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me. He also loves you because you have believed that I came from God.
You know how love
There is no Jew or Gentile.
He was a sign from God to the people of Nineveh. In the same way, the Son of Man will be a sign from God to the people of today.
A Roman Commander Has Faith
Jesus knew what they were thinking
So let me give you some advice
But above all, you should want the more important gifts.
Some of the people who were there said to Jesus, “John’s disciples often pray and go without eating.
I have made a fool of me.
You could have him back not as a slave Instead he would be better than a slave
They began shouting Great is Artemis of the Ephesians
You are so wise You gladly put up with fools
“They run quickly to commit murder.
The story of Sekota city.
to the one who sits on the throne and to the Lamb
So they answered Jesus, “We don’t know.”
It shows us that the gifts and sacrifices people offered were not enough
God will also keep you strong in faith to the very end. Then you will be without blame on the day our Lord Jesus Christ returns.
Then they cast lots. Matthias was chosen. So he was added to the  apostles.
She recognized Peters voice She was so excited that she ran back without opening the door Peter is at the door she exclaimed
You are poor blind and naked
When the Jews saw the crowds, they became very jealous.
They got up and ran Jesus out of town.
Rhesa was the son of Zerubbabel
He accepted the fact that he was past the time when he could have children. At that time Abraham was about one hundred years old.
We are poor, but we make many people rich.
He replied, “I don’t know if he is a sinner or not.
And anyone who wants to be first must be the slave of everyone.
He found Philip and said to him, “Follow me.”
He appointed them to be saved in keeping with his purpose.
Not long after that the younger son packed up all he had Then he left for a country far away There he wasted his money on wild living
Jesus said to her Your brother will rise again
My dear children
Their worship doesnt mean anything to me
Why am I still here
In those days some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
So keep thinking about Jesus.
The people went out to see what had happened Then they came to Jesus They found the man who was now free of the demons
The people ate and were satisfied After that the disciples picked up seven baskets of leftover pieces
Jesus looked up to heaven With a deep sigh he said to the man Ephphatha That means Be opened
Jesus knew what they were thinking So he said to them Every kingdom that fights against itself will be destroyed Every city or family that is divided against itself will not stand
Love the family of believers
From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings and thunder. Seven lamps were blazing in front of the throne. These stand for the seven spirits of God.
He said to me,
The believers there had heard we were coming
This became known all over Joppa
God was working in Peter as an apostle to the Jews. God was also working in me as an apostle to the Gentiles.
Look at my hands and my feet Its really me Touch me and see A ghost does not have a body or bones But you can see that I do
So he sat down by the well
Dear children, you belong to God. You have not accepted the teachings of the false prophets. That’s because the one who is in you is powerful. He is more powerful than the one who is in the world.
Here are the words of Jesus, who is the First and the Last.
You may ask me for anything in my name. I will do it.
The people of the island honored us in many ways.
“Be quiet!” Jesus said firmly. “Come out of him!”
Christ is the living Stone. People did not accept him, but God chose him. God places the highest value on him.
They came to Jesus and begged him, “This man deserves to have you do this.
Though you do not see him now you believe in him
Thats because everyone who is a child of God has won the battle over the world
To godliness, add kindness for one another. And to kindness for one another, add love.
She gave birth to a son He will rule all the nations with an iron scepter  And her child was taken up to God and to his throne
So go to the street corners Invite to the dinner anyone you can find
They don’t accept the truth. They go astray. God will pour out his great anger on them.
“ ‘The stone the builders didn’t accept
asked him If you are not the Messiah why are you baptizing people
Everyone said they didn’t do it.
Then the Pharisees replied, “When you were born, you were already deep in sin.
Jesus’ mother was there.
Hold on to what is good
God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son.
“I have a lot to say that will judge you. But the one who sent me can be trusted. And I tell the world what I have heard from him.”
The person who builds a house has greater honor than the house itself. In the same way, Jesus has been found worthy of greater honor than Moses.
I didn’t mean the people of this world who sin in this way. I didn’t mean those who always want more and more. I didn’t mean those who cheat or who worship statues of gods. In that case you would have to leave this world!
But everything the light shines on can be seen And everything that the light shines on becomes a light
Brothers and sisters, here is a mystery I want you to understand. It will keep you from being proud. Part of Israel has refused to obey God. That will continue until the full number of Gentiles has entered God’s kingdom.
except the one who was headed for ruin. It happened so that Scripture would come true.
Because the salt of peace and friendship a reminder of good ambition a good inauguration watchdog is a time to find a new idea he said።
He commanded us to preach to the people He told us to tell people that he is the one appointed by God to judge the living and the dead
So they spoke evil things against the name of God, who controlled these plagues.
Does anyone believe in me Then just as Scripture says rivers of living water will flow from inside them
You have spent enough time in the past doing what ungodly people choose to do
And I wont brag about work done by others If I did I would be bragging more than I should
They show that what the law requires is written on their hearts The way their minds judge them proves this fact Sometimes their thoughts find them guilty At other times their thoughts find them not guilty
That is why I am on trial here today
Even Satan himself pretends to be an angel of light
here is what I hope
In fact the time is coming when someone may kill you And they will think they are doing God a favor
Jesus said to them, “Haven’t you ever read what the Scriptures say,
Here are the rules you follow.“Do not handle! Do not taste! Do not touch!”
You foolish person Do you want proof that faith without good deeds is useless
Peter and John were allowed to leave. They went back to their own people. They reported everything the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
Then a great star fell from the sky
When you believed, he stamped you with an official mark. That official mark is the Holy Spirit that he promised.
But those elders who are sinning should be corrected in front of everyone This will be a warning to the others
John was like a lamp that burned and gave light. For a while you chose to enjoy his light.
You do not know him.
How terrible
But Simon replied Lord I am ready to go with you to prison and to death
Abel had faith. So he brought to God a better offering than Cain did.
They said to each other What he says is amazing
This happened so that what Jesus said about how he was going to die would come true.
To show mercy is better than to judge
As he was going into a village ten men met him They had a skin disease They were standing close by
The number of believers in Jerusalem grew quickly
Jesus was about thirty years old when he began his special work for God and others.
Here is what I tell you. From now on, I won’t drink wine with you again until the day I drink it with you in my Father’s kingdom.”
He has a message to bring to you. You and your whole family will be saved through it.’
Dont have anything to do with arguing It is dumb and foolish You know it only leads to fights
So Simon Peter climbed back into the boat He dragged the net to shore It was full of large fish
When they had nailed him to the cross they divided up his clothes by casting lots
Here is what I have been saying.
This is because all of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ
But his own people did not accept him.
Then you won’t be proud that you follow one of us instead of the other.
Their hearts were glad and sincere.
Dear friends, here is one thing you must not forget. With the Lord a day is like a thousand years. And a thousand years are like a day.
You must speak words that people understand. If you don’t, no one will know what you are saying.
Our Lord Jesus is the great Shepherd of the sheep.
It is written I have made you a father of many nations  God considers Abraham to be our father
From now on let no one cause trouble for me My body has marks that show I belong to Jesus
So the copies of the heavenly things had to be made pure with these sacrifices But the heavenly things themselves had to be made pure with better sacrifices
Then he asked the second one And how much do you owe
Here is the mystery. Because of the good news, God’s promises are for Gentiles as well as for Jews. Both groups are parts of one body. They share in the promise. It belongs to them because they belong to Christ Jesus.
So be very careful how you live. Do not live like people who aren’t wise. Live like people who are wise.
Don’t argue about things like that.
They were amazed at him.
Some have not accepted this knowledge of right and wrong So they have destroyed their faith They are like a ship that has sunk
We belong to God
Let down the nets so you can catch some fish
At harvest time he sent a slave to the renters. They were supposed to give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the renters beat the slave. Then they sent him away with nothing.
The guards were standing at the doors
God accepted Abraham’s faith, and so his faith made him right with God.”
So I tell you this. Her many sins have been forgiven. She has shown that she understands this by her great acts of love. But whoever has been forgiven only alittle loves only a little.”
The Mighty One has done great things for me
With a loud cry Jesus took his last breath
Those who belong to the earth are like the one who came from the earth And those who are spiritual are like the heavenly man
But now we have died to what used to control us. We have been set free from the law.
After I go through Macedonia, I will come to you.
On judgment day it will be easier for Tyre and Sidon than for you
Try your best to live in peace with everyone Try hard to be holy Without holiness no one will see the Lord
Dont treat prophecies as if they werent important
So Paul stayed in Corinth for a year and a half. He taught them God’s word.
God has saved us from deadly dangers
Jesus answered It is the one I will give this piece of bread to I will give it to him after I have dipped it in the dish
He would be a dear brother. He is very dear to me but even more dear to you.
I will be their God.
When you come bring my coat I left it with Carpus at Troas
But I have prayed for you Simon I have prayed that your faith will not fail When you have turned back help your brothers to be strong
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets?
In the same way, when you see these things happening, you know that the end is near. It is right at the door.
I am already being poured out like a drink offering The time when I will leave is near
When this happened their sicknesses were healed and evil spirits left them
we have spoken freely to you.
Grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
But it was Solomon who built the temple for God.
And anyone who doesnt love their brother
But they grabbed the servant and beat him up Then they sent him away with nothing
Where did they come from
He said this even though they were offered in keeping with the law.
But it’s wrong to eat anything that might cause problems for someone else’s faith.
So they agreed to give the beast their royal authority
Hezekiah was the father of ManassehManasseh was the father of AmonAmon was the father of Josiah
Scripture says,
Human anger doesnt produce the holy life God wants
You can count on it
So Saul stayed with the believers.
It had two horns like a lamb. But it spoke like a dragon.
They will ask
There they gathered the church together. They gave the letter to them.
They replied, “It has taken fourty six years to build this temple.
The commanding officer let the young man go But he gave him a warning Dont tell anyone you have reported this to me he said
Its the same with you You want the gifts of the Spirit So try to do your best in using gifts that build up the church
Give and it will be given to you A good amount will be poured into your lap
Branches like those are picked up. They are thrown into the fire
Jesus finished saying all these things to the people who were listening. Then he entered Capernaum.
When they heard this, they praised God. Then they spoke to Paul. “Brother,” they said, “you see that thousands of Jews have become believers. All of them try very hard to obey the law.
Give these instructions to the people Then no one can be blamed
Do the things you did at first
Jesus said to her Will you give me a drink
You who are not Jews by birth here is what I want you to remember You are called uncircumcised by those who call themselves circumcised But they have only been circumcised in their bodies by human hands
Here is why I use stories when I speak to the people I say
All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden in him
We pray all these things in keeping with the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
But the Pharisees and their teachers of the law complained to Jesus’ disciples.
Philip went to tell Andrew.
When the day of Pentecost came,
The angel said, ‘Send to Joppa for Simon Peter.
When your property was taken from you you accepted it with joy
Who can make war against it
It makes his glory shine more brightly Why then does he find me guilty of sin
The glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it.
Wives, follow the lead of your own husbands as you follow the Lord.
Mary Magdalene Joanna Mary the mother of James and the others with them were the ones who told the apostles
They have followed the way of Cain
The Rich Man and Lazarus
You want to make us guilty of this man’s death.”
About three oclock Jesus cried out in a loud voice He said Eli Eli lema sabachthani This means My God my God why have you deserted me
We stayed at the house of Philip the evangelist. He was one of the seven deacons.
I am not commanding you to do it.
But Peter got up and ran to the tomb He bent over and saw the strips of linen lying by themselves Then he went away wondering what had happened
Jesus was tired from the journey.
They do it to get a crown that will not last
I'm right.
Then he went back to Nazareth with them,
When Jesus reached Jerusalem, he entered the temple courtyard. He began to drive out those who were buying and selling there. He turned over the tables of the people who were exchanging money. He also turned over the benches of those who were selling doves.
The people invited them to say more about these things on the next Sabbath day
He showed me Jerusalem, the Holy City. It was coming down out of heaven from God.
Peter and John were speaking to the people. The priests, the captain of the temple guard,
The Law and the Prophets were read aloud
Timothy will visit you. Make sure he has nothing to worry about while he is with you.
Then she was a widow until she was eighty four
“The prophets of long ago were treated the same way.
The husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the church.
When he comes back those who belong to him will be raised
The next day he took out two silver coins He gave them to the owner of the inn Take care of him he said When I return
The high priest said to him, “I am commanding you in the name of the living God. May he judge you if you don’t tell the truth. Tell us if you are the Messiah, the Son of God.”
Then the angel said to me,
Those who make peace plant it like a seed. They will harvest a crop of right living.
she told them that he had said these things to her.
The person who was a slave when the Lord chose them is now the Lords free person
“When I had mercy on you, I heard you.
Next, I heard what sounded like a voice coming from among the four living creatures. It said, “Two pounds of wheat for a day’s pay. And six pounds of barley for a day’s pay. And leave the olive oil and the wine alone!”
They will be out of control
thirsty.
But other land produces only thorns and weeds.
His eyes were like a blazing fire.
Jesus called them together He said You know about those who are rulers of the Gentiles They hold power over their people Their high officials order them around
Those people are trying hard to win you over.
Hurry up
Then he touched their eyes He said It will happen to you just as you believed
Anyone who wants to take the free gift of the water of life should do so.
It was the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread That was the time to sacrifice the Passover lamb Jesus disciples asked him Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover meal
We want to keep anyone from blaming us for how we take care of that large gift.
the Beginning and the End.
Im happy because your sadness led you to turn away from your sins
He bent down again and wrote on the ground
Times are hard for you right now. So I think it’s good for a man to stay as he is.
So we strongly command people like that to settle down
Everything goes on in the same way it has since our people of long ago died.
“How terrible it will be for you, Chorazin! How terrible for you, Bethsaida! Suppose the miracles done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon. They would have turned away from their sins long ago. They would have put on the rough clothing people wear when they’re sad. They would have sat down in ashes.
The Seven Bowls of God’s Great Anger
When we heard this we all begged Paul not to go up to Jerusalem
His feet were like bronze metal glowing in a furnace His voice sounded like rushing waters
I dreamed about you.
Give him the power for ever and ever Amen
You have known the Holy Scriptures ever since you were a little child They are able to teach you how to be saved by believing in Christ Jesus
But he learned about their plan
A large crowd from the town was with her
But when you go without eating put olive oil on your head Wash your face
I have come here from God
There will be trouble for anyone who worships the beast and its statue
In the Hebrew language his name is Abaddon
I will not the son answered But later he changed his mind and went
He will speak only what he hears.
He appeared to James.
Last of all he sent his son to them They will respect my son he said
Here is what I tell you You are Peter On this rock I will build my church The gates of hell will not be strong enough to destroy it
I dont want to see you now while I am just passing through Instead I hope to spend some time with you if the Lord allows it
Dear friends since God loved us this much we should also love one another
Then Jesus told them, “You are going to have the light just a little while longer. Walk while you have the light. Do this before darkness catches up with you. Whoever walks in the dark does not know where they are going.
When he landed at Caesarea he went up to Jerusalem
Whatever you believe about these things keep between yourself and God Blessed is the person who doesnt feel guilty for what they do
So no more bragging about human leaders! All things are yours.
Everything God created is good You shouldnt turn anything down Instead you should thank God for it
So his faith made him right with God
The promise is for you and your children It is also for all who are far away
The person who does what is sinful belongs to the devil.
Brothers and sisters, suppose I were to come to you and speak in other languages. What good would I be to you?
Instead I wrote you so that in the sight of God you could see for yourselves how faithful you are to us
Those who heard what he had said began to go away. They left one at a time, the older ones first.
Later Jesus appeared to the  disciples as they were eating He spoke firmly to them because they had no faith They would not believe those who had seen him after he rose from the dead
Try hard to do what is right and godly
They ran through that whole area to bring to him those who were sick They carried them on mats to where they heard he was
Husbands, love your wives. Don’t be mean to them.
And here is the second one. ‘Love your neighbor as you love yourself.’ There is no commandment more important than these.”
Christ did not send me to baptize. He sent me to preach the good news.
Here we do not have a city that lasts But we are looking for the city that is going to come
There in front of me was a white horse.
He meant Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. Judas was one of the tewelve  disciples. But later he was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
I saw what they were doing. It was not in line with the truth of the good news. So I spoke to Peter in front of them all. “You are a Jew,” I said. “But you live like one who is not. So why do you force Gentiles to follow Jewish ways?”
But he said to me Dont do that I serve God just as you do
Life was in him, and that life was the light for all people.
The thoughts of a person ruled by sin bring death
But you do not seek the praise that comes from the only God. So how can you believe?
Last year you were the first to give. You were also the first to want to give.
When I brag about myself like this, I’m not talking the way the Lord would. I’m talking like a fool.
The chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there. With loud shouts they brought charges against him.
I Paul write this greeting in my own handwriting
You are asking me to prove that Christ is speaking through me.
He is not served by human hands. He doesn’t need anything. Instead, he himself gives life and breath to all people.
“ ‘Get up,’ the Lord said. ‘Go into Damascus.
You are fair when you judge me.”
They can’t understand the truth. They are separated from the life of God. That’s because they don’t know him. And they don’t know him because their hearts are stubborn.
Then Jesus said to her, “Woman, you have great faith! You will be given what you are asking for.” And her daughter was healed at that moment. Jesus Feeds Four Thousand
Many people have attempted to write about the things that have taken place among us
On their second visit, Joseph told his brothers who he was.
I can do nothing by myself. I judge only as I hear. And my judging is fair. I do not try to please myself. I try to please the one who sent me.
Paul replied, “I don’t care if it takes a short time or a long time. I pray to God for you and all who are listening to me today. I pray that you may become like me, except for these chains.”
He overpowered them all.
But he escaped from them.
How he judges is more than we can understand!
“I baptize people with water,” John replied. “But someone is standing among you whom you do not know.
The members of Christ’s churches in Judea did not know me in a personal way.
The man replied He is a prophet
She kept this up for many days. Finally Paul became upset. Turning around, he spoke to the spirit that was in her. “In the name of Jesus Christ,” he said, “I command you to come out of her!” At that very moment the spirit left the woman.
It was decided that we would sail for Italy.
God has said,
The following day he arrived in Caesarea Cornelius was expecting them He had called together his relatives and close friends
Jesus Chooses Philip and Nathanael
“But our people refused to obey Moses. They would not accept him.
You will be judged in the same way you judge others. You will be measured in the same way you measure others.
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this witness for the churches.
Those who prophesy can all take turns. In that way, everyone can be taught and be given hope.
It will shine on those living in darkness and in the shadow of death.
I was afraid of you. You are a hard man. You take out what you did not put in. You harvest what you did not plant.’
He will bring to light what is hidden in the dark
I know the ones I have chosen
Because of what he said many more people became believers
Then Jesus ordered his disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Messiah.
The King of the Jews
It is the beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit
He appointed him to be ruler over everything for the church.
For fourhundred years your family after you will be strangers in a country not their own.
What benefit did you gain from doing the things you are now ashamed of?
“Anyone who comes to me must hate their father and mother. They must hate their wife and children. They must hate their brothers and sisters. And they must hate even their own life. Unless they do this, they can’t be my disciple.
But God gives the seed a body just as he has planned
So through Christ we say “Amen.” We want God to receive glory.
And we dont die for ourselves only
God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son will give you grace
Some people plant to please their desires controlled by sin. From these desires they will harvest death.
Rulers and elders of the people
Our people must learn to commit themselves to doing what is good Then they can provide for people when they are in great need If they do that their lives wont turn out to be useless
We know that those who are children of God do not keep on sinning. The Son of God keeps them safe. The evil one can’t harm them.
But it doesnt find it Then it says I will return to the house I left
I have told you now before it happens. Then when it does happen, you will believe.
So faith comes from hearing the message
The glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it
A Prophet Without Honor
fighting
That is only right because your faith is growing more and more
Aren’t they speaking evil things against the worthy name of Jesus? Remember, you belong to him.
They try to keep us from speaking to the Gentiles These Jews dont want the Gentiles to be saved
The Dead Are Judged
So he went to the synagogue. There he talked both with Jews and with Greeks who worshiped God. Each day he spoke with anyone who happened to be in the market place.
The person who has the Spirit can judge all things But no human being can judge those who have the Spirit It is written
They are already being judged
Five of them were foolish. Five were wise.
Everything God created looks forward to the future. That will be the time when his children appear in their full and final glory.
The crowds listened to Philip and saw the signs he did. All of them paid close attention to what he said.
May God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace.
At the place where Jesus was crucified there was a garden
This was the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead.
Do not cry
But the church prayed hard to God for him.
it shouldnt be this way
So Paul was called in. Tertullus began to bring the charges against Paul. He said to Felix, “We have enjoyed a long time of peace while you have been ruling. You are a wise leader. You have made this a better nation.
to serve Christ Jesus among the Gentiles I have the duty of a priest to preach Gods good news Then the Gentiles will become an offering that pleases God The Holy Spirit will make the offering holy
We never stop thanking God for the way you received his word
I forget what is behind me I push hard toward what is ahead of me
And if they are chosen by grace then they cant work for it
Being circumcised means nothing. Being uncircumcised means nothing. Doing what God commands is what counts.
Still others asked How can the Messiah come from Galilee
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
They asked, “Where is the child who has been born to be king of the Jews? We saw his star when it rose. Now we have come to worship him.”
Some are also faithful today They have been chosen by Gods grace
They think they have a chance to be considered equal with us
Dont let the chains of slavery hold you again
As he was talking with Cornelius, Peter went inside. There he found a large group of people.
Love one another deeply.
Our people must learn to commit themselves to doing what is good. Then they can provide for people when they are in great need. If they do that, their lives won’t turn out to be useless.
The woman you saw stands for the great city of Babylon
But during the night an angel of the Lord came. He opened the doors of the jail and brought the apostles out.
he who is coming will come
Send someone to Joppa to get Simon Peter
Instead instruct them and teach them the ways of the Lord as you raise them
Gods anger has come on them at last
So put on all of Gods armor Evil days will come But you will be able to stand up to anything
This is the new Jerusalem which is coming down out of heaven from my God
Brothers what should we do
Don’t destroy the work of God because of food. All food is “clean.” But it’s wrong to eat anything that might cause problems for someone else’s faith.
They were given power to kill people by swords. They could also use hunger, sickness and the earth’s wild animals to kill.
Salvation
He moved about freely in Jerusalem. He spoke boldly in the Lord’s name.
Who are you to judge someone elses servant
I tell you that they gave as much as they could. In fact, they gave even more than they could. Completely on their own,
So they went and saw where he was staying. They spent the rest of the day with him. It was about four o’clock in the afternoon.
But now I feel I should write and ask you to stand up for the faith. God’s holy people were trusted with it once and for all time.
Their hair was like women’s hair.
Tiberius Caesar had been ruling for fiftyen years
Jesus left there He walked along the Sea of Galilee Then he went up on a mountainside and sat down
King Agrippa he said I am happy to be able to stand here today I will answer all the charges brought against me by the Jews
I wish I were young
Suppose I give thanks when I eat. Then why should I be blamed for eating food I thank God for?
Gods anger is going to come because of these things
This is why we work and try so hard Its because we have put our hope in the living God He is the Savior of all people Most of all he is the Savior of those who believe
The number of men who had eaten was five thousend.
Then Paul and Barnabas answered them boldly We had to speak Gods word to you first they said
Then the whole town went out to meet Jesus. When they saw him, they begged him to leave their area.
I have been appointed to be an apostle
To others the same Spirit gives faith. To others that one Spirit gives gifts of healing.
What if a law had been given that could give life?
The man answered That is really surprising You dont know where he comes from
You did not give me a kiss.
But then they became completely awake They saw Jesus glory and the two men standing with him
God didnt turn his back on his people After all he chose them Dont you know what Scripture says about Elijah He complained to God about Israel
This tent was not made with human hands.
A high priest like that really meets our need
Right now you have plenty in order to take care of what they need
He moved about freely in Jerusalem He spoke boldly in the Lords name
The person who eats everything must not look down on the one who does not.
Suddenly a sound came from heaven. It was like a strong wind blowing. It filled the whole house where they were sitting.
So put on all of God’s armor. Evil days will come. But you will be able to stand up to anything. And after you have done everything you can, you will still be standing.
After Jesus had said this, he went on ahead. He was going up to Jerusalem.
He is a witness to what he has seen and heard
They came out of the mouths of the dragon,
You can tell each tree by the kind of fruit it bears.
So you too should be glad and joyful with me
Jesus returned the third time. He said to them, “Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough! The hour has come. Look! The Son of Man is about to be handed over to sinners.
We are going up to Jerusalem he said The Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law They will sentence him to death
“Then he began to think clearly again. He said, ‘How many of my father’s hired servants have more than enough food! But here I am dying from hunger!
says the Lord who rules over all
When evening came, Jesus and his disciples left the city.
Amen.
I pray that there will be no more problems among you.
Everyone should take a careful look at themselves before they eat the bread and drink from the cup.
Then let them serve as deacons if there is nothing against them
The reason you dont hear is that you dont belong to God
God judged the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. He burned them to ashes. He made them an example of what is going to happen to ungodly people.
Because of Adam, all people die. So because of Christ, all will be made alive.
So she came there with a special jar of perfume.
God shows his anger from heaven It is against all the godless and evil things people do They are so evil that they say no to the truth
I am not like robbers or those who do other evil things
That time began when John was baptizing It ended when Jesus was taken up from us The one we choose must join us in telling people that Jesus rose from the dead
But Paul and Barnabas didn’t agree with this. They argued strongly with them. So Paul and Barnabas were appointed to go up to Jerusalem. Some other believers were chosen to go with them. They were told to ask the apostles and elders about this question.
Do you disrespect Gods great kindness and favor Do you disrespect God when he is patient with you Dont you realize that Gods kindness is meant to turn you away from your sins
When the dead rise they wont get married And their parents wont give them to be married They will be like the angels in heaven
I hope somehow to stir up my own people to want what you have Perhaps I can save some of them
Glory and power belong to God for ever and ever!”
Brothers and sisters, what should we say then?
But Pilate answered You take him and crucify him
Treat everyone the same
Then many people will give thanks because of what will happen to us They will thank God for his kindness to us in answer to the prayers of many
Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore. But the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus.
But no one would say anything about him openly. They were afraid of the leaders.
The woman realized that people would notice he
And because I am with you in spirit, I have already judged the man doing this. I have judged him in the name of our Lord Jesus.
So you arent a slave any longer You are Gods child
God was bringing the world back to himself through Christ He did not hold peoples sins against them God has trusted us with the message that people may be brought back to him
Love for money causes all kinds of evil Some people want to get rich They have wandered away from the faith They have wounded themselves with many sorrows
Joseph went boldly to Pilate and asked for Jesus’ body. Joseph was from the town of Arimathea. He was a leading member of the Jewish Council. He was waiting for God’s kingdom.
The Holy Spirit had not yet come on any of them. They had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Since the millionaire was sixtin years old in the Faremen's , they have also failed twennty six times despite taking the university entrance exam።
In those days, I will pour out my Spirit on my servants.
And we don’t die for ourselves only.
Jesus Heals an Officials Son
I looked and there in front of me was a white cloud
The authority of his Messiah has come.
So because of Gods mercy we have worked to do He has given it to us And we dont give up
The next day the large crowd that had come for the feast heard that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem.
Suppose you keep the whole law but trip over just one part of it
“The manager told him, ‘Take your bill. Sit down quickly and change it to  gallons.’
I am not here on my own authority The one who sent me is true
Just before dawn Paul tried to get them all to eat. “For the last fourtindays,” he said, “you have wondered what would happen. You have gone without food. You haven’t eaten anything.
You are a wise leader
Brothers and sisters I beg you to accept my word It tells you to be faithful Accept my word because I have written to you only a short letter
Do those who depend on the law receive the promise If they do faith would mean nothing Gods promise would be worthless
The two will become one
That means to go up into heaven and bring Christ down.
The baby was lying in the manger.
The next day the crowd that had stayed on the other side of the lake realized something. They saw that only one boat had been there. They knew that Jesus had not gotten into it with his disciples. And they knew that the disciples had gone away alone.
Some Pharisees who were with him heard him say this
When they landed they saw a fire of burning coals There were fish on it
Jesus Calms the Storm
To Older and Younger Believers
At that exact moment a rooster began to crow.
“Who is trying to kill you?”
God gave it to him to show thosewho serve God what will happen soon.
Anyone who walks during the day wont trip and fall They can see because of this worlds light
Before you believed in Christ, you were separated from him. You were not considered to be citizens of Israel. You were not included in what the covenants promised. You were without hope and without God in the world.
God Keeps His Promise
Right away Jesus made the disciples get into the boat. He had them go on ahead of him to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. Then he sent the crowd away.
I planted the seed
Why not be cheated
Salvation comes through the Holy Spirits work
But above all you should want the more important gifts
Each day he spoke with anyone who happened to be in the market place
But you are a man of God Run away from all these things Try hard to do what is right and godly Have faith love and gentleness Hold on to what you believe
“I had almost reached Damascus. About noon a bright light from heaven suddenly flashed around me.
Those bringing charges against me did not find me arguing with anyone at the temple
After many days the Jews had a meeting They planned to kill Saul
Everything that is written in the Law and the Prophets is based on these two commandments.”
You did not put any olive oil on my head
They cant go on sinning Thats because they are Gods children
Tell us by what authority you are doing these things they all said Who gave you this authority
Today I have become your Father.”
As he left, he made them a promise. “If God wants me to,” he said, “I will come back.”
I make my appeal to you, brothers and sisters. I’m asking you to become like me. After all, I became like you. You didn’t do anything wrong to me.
Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts what God says about him Whoever does not believe God is calling him a liar Thats because they have not believed what God said about his Son
Because I belong to Christ Jesus, I can take pride in my work for God.
Shouldn’t I drink the cup of suffering the Father has given me?”
Because of his faith, Moses left Egypt. It wasn’t because he was afraid of the king’s anger. He didn’t let anything stop him. That’s because he saw the God who can’t be seen.
It is planted as an earthly body
Your heart is not right with God.
When he said this, they picked up stones to kill him.
The horsemen arrived in Caesarea. They gave the letter to the governor. Then they handed Paul over to him.
Paul and some other prisoners were handed over to a Roman commander named Julius He belonged to the Imperial Guard
They drove out many demons. They poured olive oil on many sick people and healed them.
I gave them the words you gave me. And they accepted them. They knew for certain that I came from you. They believed that you sent me.
Jesus said You have now seen him
Honor and power belong to him forever
I tell you, I will not eat the Passover meal again until it is celebrated in God’s kingdom.”
you are not Caesars friend Anyone who claims to be a king is against Caesar
Gods first and only Son is over all things When God brings him into the world he says
This is the first resurrection. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the one thoused years were ended.
We looked for the believers there and stayed with them for seven days. The believers tried to keep Paul from going on to Jerusalem. They were led by the Holy Spirit to do this.
They were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth.
In fact you do love all Gods family all around Macedonia
But you can’t tell where it comes from or where it is going.
People now come to God through him. And he is able to save them completely and for all time. Jesus lives forever. He prays for them.
Two men will be in the field One will be taken and the other left
He must welcome people into his home.
Let us consider how we can stir up one another to love. Let us help one another to do good works.
So don’t judge anything before the appointed time. Wait until the Lord returns. He will bring to light what is hidden in the dark. He will show the real reasons why people do what they do. At that time each person will receive their praise from God.
Jesus Is Born
He said, “If even an animal touches the mountain,
Keep in mind the good of the person who told you.
Have faith, love and gentleness.
And you will share in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Then the men arrested Jesus and led him away They took him into the high priests house Peter followed from far away
I have fought the good fight
But his mother kept all these things like a secret treasure in her heart.
Moses said, “I am trembling with fear.”
So Herod locked John up in prison.
The respect for living has led to the world being able to identify the question 
Christ is the first of those who rise from the dead.
A good man says good things These come from the good that is stored up inside him An evil man says evil things These come from the evil that is stored up inside him
And you have not let me down
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit.
Yes he does he replied
will never be heard in you again.
Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat.Jehoshaphat was the father of Jehoram.Jehoram was the father of Uzziah.
People who don’t know better and aren’t firm in the faith twist what he says.
I saw the seven angels who stand in front of God.
So dont think you are better than the other branches Remember you dont give life to the root The root gives life to you
Stephen Is Killed
Then the words spoken by Jeremiah the prophet came true. He had said, “They took the thertiy silver coins. That price was set for him by the people of Israel.
When Jesus had finished speaking, he left and hid from them.
They love to sit down in the place of honor at dinners. They also love to have the most important seats in the synagogues.
Who Is the Most Important Person?
They were given power over a fourth of the earth.
A female servant saw him sitting there in the firelight. She looked closely at him. Then she said, “This man was with Jesus.”
Even men from your own people will rise up and twist the truth. They want to get the believers to follow them.
So suppose someone knows the good deeds they should do. But suppose they don’t do them. By not doing these good deeds, they sin.
Abraham was the father of IsaacIsaac was the father of JacobJacob was the father of Judah and his brothers
They had not understood about the loaves. They were stubborn.
What Im about to tell you is true Suppose someone gives you a cup of water in my name because you belong to the Messiah That person will certainly not go without a reward
No, I have worked harder than all the other apostles.
Get up and go downstairs.
Jesus is a witness about these things
Then they will pay no attention to Jewish stories that arent true
But here is what I tell you
“You have heard him say a very evil thing against God. What do you think?”
David did not go up to heaven.
Our parents trained us for a little while They did what they thought was best
When they were not accepted it became possible for the whole world to be brought back to God So what will happen when they are accepted It will be like life from the dead
All the people were listening. Jesus said to his disciples,
So they said It must be his angel
We must go through many hard times to enter Gods kingdom they said
They have done them in ungodly ways. He will sentence ungodly sinners for all the things they have said to oppose him.”
In the temple courtyard he found people selling cattle sheep and doves Others were sitting at tables exchanging money
Jesus, who is called Justus, also sends greetings. They are the only Jews who have worked together with me for God’s kingdom. They have been a comfort to me.
Son of God what do you want with us they shouted Have you come here to punish us before the time for us to be judged
He went on his way full of joy
“My brothers,” he said, “I have always done my duty to God. To this day I feel that I have done nothing wrong.”
But the Pharisee was surprised He noticed that Jesus did not wash before the meal
And each woman should sleep with her own husband
I will send Artemas or Tychicus to you Then do your best to come to me at Nicopolis
And they spoke evil things against God because of the plague Thats because the plague of hail was so terrible
He gave himself for us.
It didn’t matter whether we were Jews or Gentiles, slaves or free people.
When he has brought out all his own sheep, he goes on ahead of them.
So remain strong in the faith
everyone praised him
Those who passed by shouted at Jesus and made fun of him They shook their heads
“You have said so,” Jesus replied. “But here is what I say to all of you. From now on, you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One. You will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven.”
Even when we were with you, we gave you a rule. We said, “Anyone who won’t work shouldn’t be allowed to eat.”
Everyone who is with me sends you greetings.
The Holiday is an ancient expression of the Wag culture that came to be associated with the Orthodox Tewahedo faith for about  times።
Do you think I cant ask my Father for help He would send an army of more than sevety thoused angels right away
Jesus said to them Take off the clothes he was buried in and let him go
I was pretty hungry.
My dear children I am in pain for you like I was when we first met I have pain like a woman giving birth And my pain will continue until Christ makes you like himself
But he comes so that the world may learn that I love the Father They must also learn that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me to do
Their people treated the false prophets the same way long ago.
He set free the man they asked for. The man had been thrown in prison for murder and for fighting against the authorities. Pilate handed Jesus over to them so they could carry out their plans.
I am an old man, and I’m in prison. This is how I make my appeal to you for my son Onesimus. He became a son to me while I was being held in chains.
In his hand was a sharp
There will be trouble and suffering for everyone who does evil. That is meant first for the Jews. It is also meant for the Gentiles.
Masters, give your slaves what is right and fair. Do it because you know that you also have a Master in heaven.
May the Lord who gives peace gives you peace at all times and in every way
What should I say?
soul
Then the disciples brought the colt to Jesus They threw their coats on the young donkey and put Jesus on it
They are the only Jews who have worked together with me for God’s kingdom.
They said, “So then, God has allowed even Gentiles to turn away from their sins. He did this so that they could live.”
I'm almost sure of it.
When the captain of the temple guards and the chief priests heard this report they were bewildered
It is the people who must own and work for peace to come, since the people who are affected by the crisis are still the people።
The Holy Spirit will come to you
They must collect it from the other Israelites. They must do this, even though all of them belong to the family line of Abraham.
“He will destroy those evil people,” they replied. “Then he will rent the vineyard out to other renters. They will give him his share of the crop at harvest time.”
most of you shouldnt become teachers
I ate a hasty lunch
He went inside Then he said to them Why all this confusion and sobbing
Was there ever a city like this great city
On the authority of the chief priests I put many of the Lords people in prison
So he gave us new life because of what Christ has done. He gave us life even when we were dead in sin.
Then what did you go out to see
I will ask the Father. And he will give you another friend to help you and to be with you forever.
You are filled with knowledge and able to teach one another.
Rules like these are about things that will pass away soon They are based on merely human rules and teachings
If possible live in peace with everyone Do that as much as you can
or hunger
He found Philip and said to him Follow me
It promises better things than the blood of Abel.
So finish the work Then your desire to do it will be matched by your finishing it Give on the basis of what you have
The fourth looked like a flying eagle.
And I am going to be lifted up from the earth. When I am, I will bring all people to myself.”
But where sin increased Gods grace increased even more
They will be shut out of heaven.
Dont destroy the work of God because of food All food is clean But its wrong to eat anything that might cause problems for someone elses faith
We serve God by the power of his Spirit.
Then what if you see the Son of Man go up to where he was before?
Try hard to do what is right Have faith love and peace Do these things together with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart
He was taken up to heaven in glory
Dont you know that we will judge angels Then we should be able to judge the things of this life even more
I had fun last night
Out of the smoke came locusts. They came down on the earth. They were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth.
An elder must be without blame He must be faithful to his wife His children must be believers They must not give anyone a reason to say that they are wild and dont obey
So I will be very happy to spend everything I have for you. I will even spend myself. If I love you more, will you love me less?
Teacher said John we saw someone driving out demons in your name We told him to stop because he was not one of us
The person in charge tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He didn’t realize where it had come from.
Take your money and go I want to give the one I hired last the same pay I gave you
Paul went to see Aquila and Priscilla.
But no one can tame the tongue.
The waters also flooded the world of that time. And so they destroyed the world.
It says The one who shared my bread has turned against me
If you say or do things that harm one another watch out You could end up destroying one another
Peter answered, “God’s Messiah.”Jesus Speaks About His Coming Death
But because of God’s grace I am what I am. And his grace was not wasted on me. No, I have worked harder than all the other apostles. But I didn’t do the work. God’s grace was with me.
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you.
Then he took a cup. He gave thanks and handed it to them. All of them drank from it.
The good news shows God’s power to make people right with himself. God’s power to be made right with him is given to the person who has faith. It happens by faith from beginning to end. It is written, “The one who is right with God will live by faith.”
On his way he met an official.Kandake means queen .
He commands you to lead a life of love
Then Christ will shine on you
love
I often went from one synagogue to another to have them punished. I tried to force them to speak evil things against Jesus.
They tell lies about them. They hate God. They are rude and proud. They brag.
Do not touch anything that is not pure and ‘clean.’
So you are no longer outsiders and strangers. You are citizens together with God’s people. You are also members of God’s family.
So encourage one another with these words of comfort
The number of troops on horseback was two hundred million I heard how many there were
I have been sent to speak to you
The dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. Those who hear it will live.
Final Greetings
Suppose the miracles done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon. They would have turned away from their sins long ago.
asked him, “If you are not the Messiah, why are you baptizing people? Why are you doing that if you aren’t Elijah or the Prophet we’ve been expecting?”
I dont know what will happen to me there
Some of you say, “Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food. And God will destroy both of them.” But the body is not meant for sexual sins. The body is meant for the Lord. And the Lord is meant for the body.
I am a pure Hebrew.
They are only a shadow of the things to come But what is real is found in Christ
In the following matters I dont praise you Your meetings do more harm than good
This was because Jesus had said to him, “Come out of this man, you evil spirit!”
But you shouldnt be called Rabbi You have only one Teacher and you are all brothers
“But how terrible it will be for you who are rich!
I am an old man and Im in prison This is how I make my appeal to you for my son Onesimus He became a son to me while I was being held in chains
Stay calm
I live in this area.
When others say bad things about us we answer with kind words
Then what should I do with the one you call the king of the Jews Pilate asked them
Then the Jews began to argue sharply among themselves. They said, “How can this man give us his body to eat?”
A week later Jesus disciples were in the house again
I will come to you.
The tewenty four elders were sitting on their thrones in front of God They fell on their faces and worshiped God
Suppose someone takes you to court to get your shirt. Let them have your coat also.
There is no difference between those who are Jews and those who are not The same Lord is Lord of all He richly blesses everyone who calls on him
They arrested Stephen and brought him to the Sanhedrin.
We know that this man really is the Savior of the world.”
During this time, all the people were crying and sobbing loudly over the child.
But some people in the crowd made fun of the believers. “They’ve had too much wine!” they said.
But he answered his father Look All these years Ive worked like a slave for you I have always obeyed your orders You never gave me even a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends
Early on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene went to the tomb It was still dark
Don‘t forget to do well. Don’t forget to share with others. God is pleased with those kinds of offerings.
Will you thank the servant because he did what he was told to do?
Dear friends if our hearts do not judge us we can be bold with God
And how about ships? They are very big. They are driven along by strong winds. But they are steered by a very small rudder. It makes them go where the captain wants to go.
All these things will happen when he comes. On that day his glory will be seen in his holy people.
We said, “Anyone who won’t work shouldn’t be allowed to eat.”
The glory of the old lasts for only a short time How much greater is the glory of the new It will last forever
Hearing this, Jesus said to Jairus, “Don’t be afraid. Just believe. She will be healed.”
Once we were God’s enemies. But we have been brought back to him because his Son has died for us. Now that God has brought us back, we are even more secure. We know that we will be saved because Christ lives.
Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe.
“All nations will be blessed because of you.”
will be for you one for Moses and one for Elijah
Some land drinks the rain that falls on it.
They went out. And they preached that people should turn away from their sins.
Are people saved by the law that requires them to obey?
This kept the winds from blowing on the land or the sea or on any tree
“ ‘The Lord said to my Lord,
Give glory to our God and Father for ever and ever Amen
Brothers and sisters don’t find fault with one another.
“Wake up, sleeper.
You don’t realize what is good for you. It is better if one man dies for the people than if the whole nation is destroyed.”
Jesus replied Not everyone can accept the idea of staying single Only those who have been helped to live without getting married can accept it
Paul Brags about His Sufferings
Each of us should please our neighbors. Let us do what is good for them in order to build them up.
Their hair was like womens hair Their teeth were like lions teeth
God was bringing the world back to himself through Christ.
You eat the bread and drink the cup. When you do this, you are announcing the Lord’s death until he comes again.
Joanan was the son of Rhesa
He also saw the funeral cloth that had been wrapped around Jesus head The cloth was still lying in its place It was separate from the linen
As he was praying the appearance of his face changed
So they led him by the hand into Damascus
So be careful that none of you fails to receive it.
I would like you to welcome our sister Phoebe She is a deacon of the church in Cenchreae
He will reply What Im about to tell you is true Anything you didnt do for one of the least important of these you didnt do for me
Two pounds of wheat for a days pay And six pounds of barley for a days pay
The slave woman gave birth to one of them.
I dont like winter
Blessed are those
But he was too wise for them Thats because the Holy Spirit gave Stephen wisdom whenever he spoke
Do just the opposite Scripture says
In front of everyone, she told why she had touched him. She also told how she had been healed in an instant.
Think about how a small spark can set a big forest on fire.
Then it became possible for you to belong to him
Their chests were covered with something that looked like armor made out of iron.
and my wife is old too.”
It was the first time a list was made of the people while Quirinius was governor of Syria
But they could not get near him because of the crowd.
He came to tell everyone on earth the good news that will always be true. He told it to every nation, tribe and people, no matter what language they spoke.
He was preached among the nations
And his grace was not wasted on me.
I eat here.
The Spirit himself joins with our spirits Together they tell us that we are Gods children
When I brag about myself like this Im not talking the way the Lord would Im talking like a fool
In this way the Lord showed that they were telling the truth about his grace
Don’t argue about family histories.
My goal while I was with you was to talk about only one thing And that was Jesus Christ and his death on the cross
They also prophesied
Jesus knew what they were thinking So he took a little child and had the child stand beside him
That comes as no surprise.
Brothers and sisters what if someone is caught in a sin Then you who live by the Spirit should correct that person Do it in a gentle way But be careful You could be tempted too
I can't shut it down.
His word is not in us
The sun and sky were darkened by the smoke from the Abyss.
The foolish things of God are wiser than human wisdom.
But it was even surer that Gods grace would also come through one man That man is Jesus Christ Gods gift of grace was more than enough for the whole world
Jesus answered I am the way and the truth and the life
“I am the vine.
And I will continue to be glad
He brings their blood as a sin offering. But the bodies are burned outside the camp.
All these things will happen when the Lord Jesus appears from heaven.He will come in blazing fire. He will come with his powerful angels.
The crowds answered, “This is Jesus. He is the prophet from Nazareth in Galilee.”
You will receive a rich welcome into the kingdom that lasts forever. It is the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
We are true to our calling
People were also bringing babies to Jesus. They wanted him to place his hands on the babies. When the disciples saw this, they told the people to stop.
All of this comes from the world. None of it comes from the Father.
He is a leader of those who follow Jesus of Nazareth.
“Listen to his voice today.
They talked about this with each other. They said, “He must be saying this because we don’t have any bread.”
On that day you will realize that I am in my Father.
You cant have a part in both the Lords table and the table of demons
“What do you want me to do for you?” Jesus asked.
Since all this is true, won’t the work of the Holy Spirit be even more glorious?
Then your Father in heaven will forgive your sins.”
I have come down to set them free.
Jesus said to the servants Fill the jars with water
I am the Alpha and the Omega
Thats because she and her children are slaves
You can trust this saying. These things are important.
Some of the officials in Asia Minor were friends of Paul They sent him a message begging him not to go into the theater
He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him. He began to be sad and troubled.
So I want you to know that no one who is speaking with the help of God’s Spirit says, “May Jesus be cursed.” And without the help of the Holy Spirit no one can say, “Jesus is Lord.”
I sent you to gather what you have not worked for.
But people treat us as if we were pretenders
And I know about Paul.
So dont be afraid in any way of those who oppose you This will show them that they will be destroyed and that you will be saved Thats what God will do
He lives in keeping with the truth
He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and swim to land
I know a believer in Christ who was taken up to the third heaven  years ago I dont know if his body was taken up or not Only God knows
John said many other things to warn the people. He also announced the good news to them.
It includes washing the feet of the Lords people
The child is not dead She is only sleeping
The last were Simon the Zealot and Judas Iscariot. Judas was the one who was later going to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
He has given us the Holy Spirit as a down payment. The Spirit makes us sure of what is still to come.
Life Through Christ
Then you should become “fools” so that you can become wise.
He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood
Jesus said to them Go So the demons came out of the men and went into the pigs The whole herd rushed down the steep bank They ran into the lake and drowned in the water
Two Blind Men Receive Their Sight
He must be faithful to his wife.
I agree.
If you are slaves of sin then you will die
Im not writing to you because you dont know the truth Im writing because you do know it Im writing to you because no lie comes from the truth
Then the men stepped forward. They grabbed Jesus and arrested him.
So Jesus replied to the messengers, “Go back to John.
For three days he was blind. He didn’t eat or drink anything.
But anyone who drinks the water I give them will never be thirsty
“Barabbas,” they answered.
The waters also flooded the world of that time And so they destroyed the world
Then what if you see the Son of Man go up to where he was before
They said this because they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with Paul They thought Paul had brought him into the temple
He provided the way for people to be made pure from sin.
Jesus told them a story. “Look at the fig tree and all the trees,” he said.
The Holy Spirit will make the offering holy.
I forgot
Follow the lead of those who are older
You have taken away the key to the door of knowledge.
That’s the reason I have sent Timothy to you. He is like a son to me, and I love him. He is faithful in serving the Lord. He will remind you of my way of life in serving Christ Jesus. And that agrees with what I teach everywhere in every church.
Try your best to live in peace with everyone
You have put him on as if he were your clothes.
Didnt the Messiah have to suffer these things and then receive his glory
Suppose you had ten thoused believers in Christ watching over you. You still wouldn’t have many fathers.
You will be made rich in every way. Then you can always give freely. We will take your many gifts to the people who need them. And they will give thanks to God.
But his own people did not accept him
Instead we will speak the truth in love
The only thing they have coming to them is death
I want you to grow up.
The disciples were amazed at his words But Jesus said again Children how hard it is to enter Gods kingdom
Shaking with fear, she came and fell at his feet.
I watched as the Lamb broke open the first of the seven seals.
It shone with the glory of God.
Living by the Holy Spirits Power
We depend on it
And forgive us our sins
He scattered the seed on the ground Some fell on a path
But what you teach must agree with true teaching
God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose So they agreed to give the beast their royal authority They will give him this authority until Gods words come true
Unless they do this they cant be my disciple
He saved Joseph from all his troubles God made Joseph wise
Jesus Drives Out an Evil Spirit
Scripture says He will rule them with an iron scepter
Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don’t know where you are going. So how can we know the way?”
The people living on earth were drunk with the wine of her terrible sins
When he died, he died once and for all time. He did this to break the power of sin. Now that he lives, he lives in the power of God.
You are the God who is and who was
Jesus went to Nazareth where he had been brought up
We arrived at Miletus the next day
But I have written to you very boldly about some things I wanted to remind you of them again The grace of God has allowed me
Brothers and sisters join together in following my example
I used my free time to overcome the burden of daily life he said
They went to the chief priests and the elders They said We have made a special promise to God We will not eat anything until we have killed Paul
Jesus said to them, “Do you bring in a lamp to put it under a large bowl or a bed? Don’t you put it on its stand?
We will no longer be babies in the faith. We won’t be like ships tossed around by the waves. We won’t be blown here and there by every new teaching. We won’t be blown around by cleverness and tricks. Certain people use them to hide their evil plans.
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed at the commander.
And what about my enemies who did not want me to be king over them Bring them here Kill them in front of me
Every good and perfect gift is from God. This kind of gift comes down from the Father who created the heavenly lights. These lights create shadows that move. But the Father does not change like these shadows.
He is the true God and eternal life
In the past God spoke to our people through the prophets He spoke at many times He spoke in different ways
But when Peter saw the wind he was afraid He began to sink He cried out Lord Save me
you belong to God
What do you want with us Jesus of Nazareth Have you come to destroy us I know who you are You are the Holy One of God
They might want pleasure more than they want Christ. Then they would want to get married again.
But the man replied, “Lord, first let me go and bury my father.”
No training seems pleasant at the time In fact it seems painful
At that time the son born in the usual way tried to hurt the other son The other son was born by the power of the Holy Spirit It is the same now
After all he chose them Dont you know what Scripture says about Elijah
It has now been made known through the coming of our Savior, Christ Jesus. He has broken the power of death. Because of the good news, he has brought life out into the light. That life never dies.
The city was laid out like a square It was as long as it was wide
So we try our best to please him We want to please him whether we are at home in our bodies or away from them
It gets drunk
They kept looking for Jesus as they stood in the temple courtyard. They asked one another, “What do you think? Isn’t he coming to the feast at all?”
Suppose someone is ashamed of me and my words The Son of Man will come in his glory and in the glory of the Father and the holy angels
But if she does she must not get married again
I praise you for being faithful in remembering me I also praise you for staying true to the teachings of the past You have stayed true to them just as I gave them to you
It was decided that we would sail for Italy. Paul and some other prisoners were handed over to a Roman commander named Julius. He belonged to the Imperial Guard.
So the holy one that is born will be called the Son of God.
‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread.
They left the room and began to talk with one another Why should this man die or be put in prison they said He has done nothing worthy of that
Jesus rose from the dead early on the first day of the week He appeared first to Mary Magdalene He had driven seven demons out of her
Until I come spend your time reading Scripture out loud to one another Spend your time preaching and teaching
But if you are slaves who obey God then you will live a godly life
They must turn away from evil and do good
When a council that exists only by pretending, Sinoro can corrupt the bloody executive branch with it just as big።
There Christ sits far above all who rule and have authority He also sits far above all powers and kings
They are the people who separate you from one another.
Peter was wondering what the vision meant. At that very moment the men sent by Cornelius found Simon’s house. They stopped at the gate
But I was lowered in a basket from a window in the wall So I escaped from the governor
But to those who have twisted minds and dont believe nothing is pure
We who are alive are always in danger of death because we are serving Jesus
Dont give the devil a chance
I have told you before that you have an important place in our hearts
I speak the truth in Christ I am not lying My mind tells me that what I say is true It is guided by the Holy Spirit
It is written,“‘You can be sure that I live,’ says the Lord.
It said
You will be thrown out of the synagogue. In fact, the time is coming when someone may kill you. And they will think they are doing God a favor.
The three most important things to have are faith, hope and love.
I used to speak evil things against Jesus. I tried to hurt his followers. I really pushed them around. But God showed me mercy anyway. I did those things without knowing any better. I wasn’t a believer.
The Lord stood at my side He gave me the strength to preach the whole message Then all the Gentiles heard it I was saved from the lions mouth
Whoever has ears should listen.”
And it was night.
All their glory is like the flowers in the field.
How about Thai food?
Then Judas spoke Lord he said
Only two or three prophets are supposed to speak. Others should decide if what is being said is true.
John’s disciples told him about all these things. So he chose two of them.
The eyes stand for the seven spirits of God, which are sent out into all the earth.
Instead we have given up doing secret and shameful things
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees sent temple guards to arrest him.
Paul writes the same way in all his letters.
The person who says this is the great enemy of Christ They say no to the Father and the Son
They have taken my Lord away she said
Amen
They will make war against the Lamb.
All this encourages us
Also king of Salem means king of peace
The result of God’s gift is different from the result of Adam’s sin. That one sin brought God’s judgment. But after many sins, God’s gift made people right with him.
will ever be found in you again.
But he was full of the Holy Spirit He looked up to heaven and saw Gods glory
Is everyone a prophet?
I was sure that all of you would share my joy.
Thats because they will fade away like wild flowers
So when we can do well to everyone let us do it Lets try even harder to do good to the family of believers
I myself am a man who is under authority. And I have soldiers who obey my orders. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes. I tell that one, ‘Come,’ and he comes. I say to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
Follow me,
“Suppose your son asks for bread. Which of you will give him a stone?
“All day long I have held out my hands.
You have had it since the beginning
We came near Cyprus and passed to the south of it.
But a son belongs to the family forever.
Jesus replied, “Suppose someone starts to plow and then looks back. That person is not fit for service in God’s kingdom.”
The Mountain of Fear and the Mountain of Joy
to serve Christ Jesus among the Gentiles. I have the duty of a priest to preach God’s good news. Then the Gentiles will become an offering that pleases God. The Holy Spirit will make the offering holy.
Sit at my right hand
If I dont have love I am only a loud gong or a noisy cymbal
All who have come before me are thieves and robbers.
There were people who were not killed by these plagues. But they still didn’t turn away from what they had been doing. They did not stop worshiping demons. They kept worshiping statues of gods made out of gold, silver, bronze, stone and wood. These statues can’t see or hear or walk.
When he had said this he died
Didnt you understand when I said In a little while you will no longer see me Then after a little while you will see me
You are filled with a glorious joy that cant be put into words
Our hope for you remains firm We know that you suffer just as we do In the same way God comforts you just as he comforts us
Jesus showed his glory by doing this sign.
They all wept as they hugged and kissed him
The Guards at the Tomb
Jesus Speaks About His Coming Death
The God who saves will come from Mount Zion
There was plenty of grass in that place, and they sat down.
But God chose you to be his people. You are royal priests. You are a holy nation. You are God’s special treasure. You are all these things so that you can give him praise. God brought you out of darkness into his wonderful light.
Do it in a gentle way. But be careful. You could be tempted too.
He also keeps others from welcoming them.
All of this comes from the world None of it comes from the Father
When Jesus stepped on shore, he was met by a man from the town. The man was controlled by demons. For a long time he had not worn clothes or lived in a house. He lived in the tombs.
Levi was the son of Simeon.
Glory and power belong to God for ever and ever
But if I go, I will send him to you.
That is better by far
My dear friends, run away from statues of gods. Don’t worship them.
Then how will we escape if we dont pay attention to Gods great salvation The Lord first announced this salvation Those who heard him gave us the message about it
Paul was about to give reasons for his actions. But just then Gallio spoke to them.
I heard her singing
He must not get drunk He must not push people around He must be gentle He must not be a person who likes to argue He must not love money
I will call the one who is not my loved one ‘my loved one.’ ”
Am I wrong
This is the bread that came down from heaven. Long ago your people ate manna and died. But whoever eats this bread will live forever.”
How about a sandwich
Christ died and came back to life. He did this to become the Lord of both the dead and the living.
I have told you this so that you will have the same joy that I have I also want your joy to be complete
At one time he brought them out of Egypt.
He has given us understanding
So did the prophets.
Im counting on you
And each part of the body belongs to all the other parts
But other land produces only thorns and weeds
Then all the Gentiles heard it. I was saved from the lion’s mouth.
gleaming with gold, jewels and pearls!
I did not speak on my own.
The Jews asked him to spend more time with them.
Dont be upset whether that message is spoken or written or prophesied
These people complain and find fault with others. They follow their own evil desires. They brag about themselves. They praise others to get what they want.
Jesus saw their faith. So he said to the man, “Son, your sins are forgiven.”
You suffered along with people in prison. When your property was taken from you, you accepted it with joy. You knew that God had given you better and more lasting things.
I come from England.
I heard a loud voice behind me that sounded like a trumpet.
But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah the Son of God
When I brag about myself like this, I’m not talking the way the Lord would. I’m talking like a fool.
They all asked Are you the Son of God then
God chose us to belong to Christ before the world was created. He chose us to be holy and without blame in his eyes. He loved us.
They also will answer Lord when did we see you hungry or thirsty and not help you When did we see you as a stranger or needing clothes or sick or in prison and not help you
The last Adam became a spirit that gives life.
In fact it is just the opposite God has approved us to preach He has trusted us with the good news We arent trying to please people We want to please God He tests our hearts
They also have power to turn the waters into blood.
Paul entered the synagogue There he spoke boldly for three months
They brought the apostles to the Sanhedrin.
And don’t greet anyone on the road.
This was to make what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah come true It says
The fifth was made out of onyx.
“I serve the Lord,”
Then he said to all of them, “Whoever wants to follow me must say no to them. They must pick up their cross every day and follow me.
“How can I?” he said. “I need someone to explain it to me.” So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.
Melchizedek was the king of Salem. He was the priest of God Most High. He met Abraham, who was returning from winning a battle over some kings. Melchizedek blessed him.
Jacobs sons were jealous of their brother Joseph So they sold him as a slave He was taken to Egypt
anyone who accepts me accepts the one who sent me
When I come I will give you more directions
A second time the voice spoke from heaven The voice said Do not say anything is not pure that God has made clean
Our God is a God who strengthens and encourages you. May he give you the same attitude toward one another that Christ Jesus had.
Finally the woman died
He has made us members of his royal family.
But the Jews who refused to believe stirred up some of the Gentiles who were there. They turned them against the two men and the new believers.
It was the city he loves. But fire came down from heaven and burned them up.
Whoever has something will be given more. Whoever has nothing, even what they have will be taken away from them.”
Theophilus, I wrote about Jesus in my earlier book. I wrote about all he did and taught
You have been set free from sin God has made you his slaves The benefit you gain leads to holy living And the end result is eternal life
jealousy and
“So here is what I tell you. The kingdom of God will be taken away from you. It will be given to people who will produce its fruit.
My son, be strong in the grace that is yours in Christ Jesus.
On the third day, they even threw the ship’s tools and supplies overboard with their own hands.
I wonder who has come
Right away those who were about to question him left.
I hope to send Timothy to you soon if the Lord Jesus allows it Then I will be encouraged when I receive news about you
But he comes so that the world may learn that I love the Father. They must also learn that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me to do.
The governor motioned for Paul to speak.
Peter knocked at the outer entrance. A servant named Rhoda came to answer the door.
And dont say no to the truth
The conciliation imposed by the game of Loffer Lofe makes it impossible for a hand to fight።
He will not speak on his own.
The disciples had forgotten to bring bread They had only one loaf with them in the boat
Last of all, he sent his son to them. ‘They will respect my son,’ he said.
The first foundation was made out of jasper
But the man wanted to make himself look good
In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth get up and walk
Are we beginning to praise ourselves again
I want to say something about our brother Apollos
The law appoints as high priests men who are weak But Gods promise came after the law By his promise the Son was appointed The Son has been made perfect forever
While the people were listening to these things Jesus told them a story He was near Jerusalem The people thought that Gods kingdom was going to appear right away
I John am a believer like you I am a friend who suffers like you As members of Jesus royal family we can put up with anything that happens to us
Even handkerchiefs and aprons that had touched him were taken to those who were sick. When this happened, their sicknesses were healed and evil spirits left them.
But the Jerusalem that is above is free She is our mother
They said to each other, “He explained to us what the Scriptures meant. Weren’t we excited as he talked with us on the road?”
And don’t be ashamed of me, his prisoner.
The created world was held back from fulfilling its purpose But this was not the result of its own choice It was planned that way by the one who held it back God planned
I do it to win as many as I can to Christ
Ill pay it back I Paul am writing this with my own hand
Always be joyful
He is the one written about in Scripture It saysI will send my messenger ahead of youHe will prepare your way for you
So Jesus called them over to him. He began to speak to them using stories.
He got up and ordered the wind and the huge waves to stop
You have us as a model. So pay close attention to those who live as we do.
Dont let anyone look down on you
Here is the judgment. Light has come into the world,
God has reserved a place of very black darkness for them forever
How terrible for you teachers of the law and Pharisees You pretenders You travel everywhere to win one person to your faith Then you make them twice as much a child of hell as you are
Right away he called out to them They left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men Then they followed Jesus
But even Michael the leader of the angels didnt dare to say these things
I wish all of you were single like me. But you each have your own gift from God. One has this gift, and another has that one.
In the same way the men turned away from their natural love for women They burned with sexual desire for each other
This is because all of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. You have put him on as if he were your clothes.
And what should we do
At that time someone may say to you, ‘Look! Here is the Messiah!’ Or, ‘There he is!’ Do not believe it.
They all found him guilty and said he must die.
Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit. He said to them, “Rulers and elders of the people!
I have other sheep that do not belong to this sheep pen
Dear children,
Two others are still coming
This man deserves to have you do this.
Arent they dragging you into court
May the only wise God receive glory forever through Jesus Christ Amen
You spoke against the Holy and Blameless One You asked for a murderer to be set free instead
Pauls Advice to Give Freely
After he said this Jesus went on speaking to them Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep
Long ago Scripture knew that God would make the Gentiles right with himself He would do this by their faith in him
Jesus sat down and called for the  disciples to come to him Then he said Anyone who wants to be first must be the very last They must be the servant of everyone
That comes as no surprise. Even Satan himself pretends to be an angel of light.
John told them
Jesus replied, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
It shone with the glory of God. It gleamed like a very valuable jewel. It was like a jasper, as clear as crystal.
But I don’t brag, so that no one will think more of me than they should.
All who were appointed for eternal life believed.
“The time came when the beggar died. The angels carried him to Abraham’s side. The rich man also died and was buried.
He was very sick. In fact, he almost died. But God had mercy on him. He also had mercy on me. God spared me sadness after sadness.
A voice spoke to him from heaven It said You are my Son and I love you I am very pleased with you
I have been in danger from rivers. I have been in danger from robbers.
and Laodicea.”
Here is what I, Paul, say to you. Don’t let yourselves be circumcised. If you do, Christ won’t be of any value to you.
A good man says good things These come from the good that is stored up in his heart
The wind blows where it wants to. You hear the sound it makes. But you can’t tell where it comes from or where it is going. It is the same with everyone who is born with the Spirit.”
They went around wearing the skins of sheep and goats
Now I am happy. I’m not happy because you were made sad.
But Christ is faithful as the Son over the house of God
he worshiped him
They shouldnt wear gold or pearls
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples. He said, “Whoever wants to be my disciple must say no to themselves. They must pick up their cross and follow me.
They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea.
I pray that he will use his glorious riches to make you strong. May his Holy Spirit give you his power deep down inside you?
You pretenders! Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you. He said,
You have stood by me during my troubles
From the beginning the devil was a murderer
All nations will come and worship you
They shouldnt expect to receive anything from the Lord
We firmly believe that a person is made right with God because of their faith. They are not saved by obeying the law.
All the people of Athens spent their time talking about and listening to the latest ideas. People from other lands who lived there did the same.
Before God took him Enoch was praised as one who pleased God
“May glory be given to God in the highest heaven
What is a son of man that you take care of him?
But when the chief priests and the elders brought charges against him he did not answer
The tewenty four elders were sitting on their thrones in front of God. They fell on their faces and worshiped God.
He will rule for ever and ever
The heavens will disappear with a roar.
They believed because of what the woman had said about him.
When you see leaves appear on the branches you know that summer is near
They are like children sitting in the market and calling out to each other
You have put him on as if he were your clothes
Suppose someone has made us sad. In some ways, he hasn’t made me sad so much as he has made all of you sad. But I don’t want to put this too strongly.
Or did the word of God begin with you Or are you the only people it has reached
A delegation headed by Somaliland President Moses Bihi Abdi entered Jigjiga.
Some of you are trying to be made right with God by obeying the law You have been separated from Christ You have fallen away from Gods grace
The high priest carries the blood of animals into the Most Holy Room. He brings their blood as a sin offering. But the bodies are burned outside the camp.
impure acts
So Jesus went with them.
From Miletus Paul sent for the elders of the church at Ephesus
These are the things you are to teach. Try hard to get the believers to do them.
Many people came to him. They said, “John never performed a sign. But everything he said about this man was true.”
Their hearts will be filled with love for you when they pray for you
“What I’m about to tell you Pharisees is true. What if someone does not enter the sheep pen through the gate but climbs in another way? That person is a thief and a robber.
The light of a lamp will never shine in you again
Herod planned to put Peter on public trial. It would take place after the Passover Feast.
But no one asked, “What do you want from her?”
You have been set free from sin You have become slaves to right living
We are writing this to make our joy complete
Keep watch Stay awake You do not know when that time will come
Dont be proud at all Be completely gentle Be patient Put up with one another in love
Then Gods peace will watch over your hearts and your minds He will do this because you belong to Christ Jesus Gods peace can never be completely understood
Everyone the Father gives me will come to me
Worship him who made the heavens and the earth
When I went to Jerusalem the Jewish chief priests and the elders brought charges against the man They wanted him to be found guilty
But Felix wanted to do the Jews a favor. So he left Paul in prison.
“A man named Ananias came to see me. He was a godly Jew who obeyed the law. All the Jews living there respected him very much.
“A farmer went out to plant his seed. He scattered the seed on the ground. Some fell on a path. People walked on it, and the birds ate it up.
May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior give you grace and peace
We boarded a ship from Adramyttium It was about to sail for ports along the coast of Asia Minor
On the third day there was a wedding. It took place at Cana in Galilee. Jesus’ mother was there.
Right away mist and darkness came over him
He jumped to his feet and began to walk. He went with Peter and John into the temple courtyards. He walked and jumped and praised God.
God will give eternal life to those who keep on doing good They want glory honor and life that never ends
It is a mist that appears for a little while. Then it disappears.
The men replied We have come from Cornelius the Roman commander
There will be trouble and suffering for everyone who does evil That is meant first for the Jews It is also meant for the Gentiles
How terrible for you, mighty city of Babylon!
But many who heard the message believed. The number of men who believed grew to about five thousend.
That’s because the Spirit is the truth.
A man in the crowd answered Teacher he said I brought you my son He is controlled by an evil spirit Because of this my son cant speak anymore
He is not served by human hands. He doesn’t need anything. Instead, he himself gives life and breath to all people. He also gives them everything else they have.
But Jesus did not say he would not die He only said Suppose I want him to remain alive until I return
He planned to create one new people out of Jews and Gentiles He wanted to make peace between them
This is the truth you can trust and accept completely
Paul and Barnabas started to leave the synagogue
But I give my opinion. Because of the Lord’s mercy, I give it as one who can be trusted.
But he said, “I must announce the good news of God’s kingdom to the other towns also. That is why I was sent.”
He was very wise.
After that, God will judge them.
Up to this very hour we are hungry and thirsty. We are dressed in rags. We are being treated badly. We have no homes.
To knowledge add the ability to control yourselves To the ability to control you add the strength to keep going To the strength to keep going add godliness
This message is in keeping with the mystery hidden for a very long time
Also, the complaints of the inhabitants claim that First Government did not reduce the price and second pure grain was not offered።
Here is something to remember
There he stayed with his disciples.
There he greeted the church He then went down to Antioch
Brothers and sisters you became like the members of Gods churches in Judea They are believers in Christ Jesus just as you are
The Father lives in me He is the one who is doing his work
Certain people came down from Judea to Antioch. Here is what they were teaching the believers. “Moses commanded you to be circumcised,” they said. “If you aren’t, you can’t be saved.”
Apollos wanted to go to Achaia. The brothers and sisters agreed with him. They wrote to the believers there. They asked them to welcome him. When he arrived, he was a great help to those who had become believers by God’s grace.
The world was not worthy of them. They wandered in deserts and mountains.
After all what is Apollos And what is Paul We are only people who serve We helped you to believe The Lord has given each of us our own work to do
correct those I love.
The heavens are the work of your hands
So love one another deeply, from your hearts.
I saw in heaven another great and wonderful sign. Seven angels were about to bring the seven last plagues. The plagues would complete God’s anger.
The devil had caused them to believe lies. He was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur. That is where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. They will all suffer day and night for ever and ever.
I have to stay home
But God found fault with the people. He said,
If you do not forgive them they are not forgiven
I did not order this
You know what the commandments say. ‘Do not commit adultery. Do not commit murder. Do not steal. Do not be a false witness. Honor your father and mother.’ ”
Jesus answered, “Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. But anyone who drinks the water I give them will never be thirsty. In fact, the water I give them will become a spring of water in them. It will flow up into eternal life.”
They asked only one thing They wanted us to continue to remember poor people
In this way, put your hope in the grace that lies ahead.
The cherubim were above the ark God showed his glory there The cherubim spread their wings over the place where sin was paid for
you will face all kinds of trouble. When you do, think of it as pure joy.
It stirs up trouble all the time among people whose minds are twisted by sin
Isnt his mothers name Mary
What can mere human beings do to me?”
I am doing the works the Father gave me to finish.
God is light
The sword is God’s word.
So let us make every effort to enjoy that rest. Then no one will die by disobeying as they did.
God has trusted us with the message that people may be brought back to him.
You are filled with a glorious joy that can’t be put into words.
Jesus replied, “Moses let you divorce your wives because you were stubborn. But it was not this way from the beginning.
God is very pleased with you.
A Roman commander was standing there in front of Jesus. He saw how Jesus died. Then he said, “This man was surely the Son of God!”
Put up with hard times. God uses them to train you. He is treating you as his children. What children are not trained by their parents?
He said, ‘The Son of Man must be handed over to sinful people. He must be nailed to a cross. On the third day he will rise from the dead.’ ”
Slaves, obey your masters here on earth. Respect them and honor them with a heart that is true. Obey them just as you would obey Christ.
I am sending this letter to all of you in Rome You are loved by God and appointed to be his holy people
They have not known my ways
What do you want Jesus asked
I can start anytime
The horsemen arrived in Caesarea. They gave the letter to the governor.
Timothy stay there in Ephesus That is what I told you to do when I went into Macedonia
Send the people away Then they can go to the nearby countryside and villages to buy something to eat
You have made yourselves pure by obeying the truth So you have an honest and true love for each other So love one another deeply from your hearts
They begged him to let those who were sick just touch the edge of his clothes. And all who touched his clothes were healed.
He sent them to the Lord. John told them to ask him, “Are you the one who is supposed to come? Or should we look for someone else?”
But the Jewish leaders stirred up the important women who worshiped God. They also stirred up the men who were leaders in the city. The Jewish leaders tried to get the women and men to attack Paul and Barnabas. They threw Paul andBarnabas out of that area.
“The Root of Jesse will grow up quickly. He will rule over the nations.
Hasn’t God chosen those who are poor in the world’s eyes to be rich in faith?
witchcraft,
So the Pharisees also asked him how he was able to see.
As you know the Passover Feast is two days away The Son of Man will be handed over to be nailed to a cross
Jesus knew what they were saying. So he said, “Your faith is so small! Why are you talking to each other about having no bread?
All the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John came.
I am by far the least important of the entire Lords holy people But he gave me the grace to preach to the Gentiles about the unlimited riches that Christ gives
I want to preach it because Im not ashamed of the good news It is Gods power to save everyone who believes It is meant first for the Jews It is meant also for the Gentiles
Who hopes for what they already have?
A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside
Hold on to what is good.
People do not pick figs from thorns
Then Jesus said to him, “Get up! Pick up your mat and walk.”
They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha The word Golgotha means the Place of the Skull
Put your love into action.
Gone will be the music of harps, flutes and trumpets.
It stirs up trouble.
Has he done anything wrong to you Does he owe you anything Then charge it to me
What you have whispered to someone behind closed doors will be shouted from the rooftops.
He put his Spirit in our hearts and marked us as his own.
Dear friends now we are children of God He still hasnt let us know what we will be But we know that when Christ appears we will be like him Thats because we will see him as he really is
And they called out in a loud voice, “Jesus! Master! Have pity on us!”
But if we love one another, God lives in us.
The Father who sent me is himself a witness about me.
In this way he will prepare a people who are ready for the Lord
Certainly not
There you will be told everything you have been given to do
Now I want to talk about some other matters brothers and sisters We taught you how to live in a way that pleases God
This message is in keeping with the mystery hidden for a very long time.
The sound I heard was like the music of harps being played
Then they went with him to the ship.
Jesus answered I tell you Peter you will say three times that you dont know me And you will do it before the rooster crows today
When they looked up, they saw no one except Jesus.
He said The Son of Man must suffer many things
And suppose someone brings that person back.
Stephen Speaks to the Sanhedrin
Now angels are stronger and more powerful than these people.
I have been bragging about it to the people in Macedonia.
Do you want to be like her Then do what is right
Besides, they get into the habit of having nothing to do. They go around from house to house. They waste their time. They also bother other people and say things that make no sense. They shouldn’t say those things.
I tell you, not one of those people who were invited will get a taste of my banquet.’ ”
The king stood up. The governor and Bernice and those sitting with them stood up too.
The fire is not put out
But I wont brag more than I should God himself has given me an opportunity for serving
But the Pharisees believe all these things
They told no lies.
The devil has come down to you.He is very angry.
He fell to the ground
“You have heard that it was said, ‘Do not commit adultery.’
Anyone who loves their life will lose it. But anyone who hates their life in this world will keep it and have eternal life.
since God loved us this much
His disciples had gone into the town to buy food
We are full of joy even when we suffer
Have I become your enemy now by telling you the truth?
Do the things you did at first.
God has shown these things to us through his Spirit.
“I have told you these things, so that you can have peace because of me.
The younger women must control themselves and be pure.
They were so angry they ground their teeth at Stephen.
They planned to kill them by throwing stones at them
If you would arent you treating some people better than others
He has given us understanding.
Jesus and his disciples went on to the villages around Caesarea Philippi On the way he asked them Who do people say I am
Isn’t it you?
Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel.
At that time some Pharisees came to Jesus They said to him Leave this place Go somewhere else Herod wants to kill you
“He replied, ‘I tell you that everyone who has will be given more. But here is what will happen to anyone who has nothing. Even what they have will be taken away from them.
They will turn to stories that aren’t true.
But the angel said to her,
So here is the advice I give to younger widows. Get married. Have children. Take care of your own homes. Don’t give the enemy the chance to tell lies about you.
Some people brought little children to Jesus. They wanted him to place his hands on the children and pray for them. But the disciples told them not to do it.
When a woman is learning she should be quiet She should follow her leaders in every way
So does belonging to Christ help you in any way? Does his love comfort you at all? Do you share anything in common because of the Holy Spirit? Has Christ ever been gentle and loving toward you?
No one will steal them out of my hand.
When he saw the crowds, he felt deep concern for them. They were treated badly and were helpless, like sheep without a shepherd.
There John Mark left them and returned to Jerusalem
They bring out the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink
Faith in Jesus has healed him completely. You can see it with your own eyes.
They will pick up snakes with their hands. And when they drink deadly poison, it will not hurt them at all. They will place their hands on sick people. And the people will get well.”
Everyone has heard that you obey God.
The next night the Lord stood near Paul. He said, “Be brave! You have told people about me in Jerusalem. You must do the same in Rome.”
yours go on eating and drinking.”
Their loss brings riches to the Gentiles
It is true that there are all kinds of languages in the world
There is no fear in love
Then who can sentence us to death
Even though you are evil, you know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your Father who is in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him!
Scripture says that God “has put everything under his control.”  It says that “everything” has been put under him. But it is clear that this does not include God himself. That’s because God put everything under Christ.
Suppose you sin against them in this way Then you harm their weak sense of what is right and wrong By doing this you sin against Christ
If you belonged to the world, it would love you like one of its own.
They go out to gather the kings of the whole world for battle. This battle will take place on the great day of the God who rules over all.
People were coming and being baptized.
But we love each other. And I would rather appeal to you on the basis of that love. I, Paul, am an old man. I am now also a prisoner because of Christ Jesus.
A man gathers a crop from what he plants.
He is my only child
It is for all whom the Lord our God will choose.”
So let us never stop offering to God our praise through Jesus. Let us talk openly about our faith in him. Then our words will be like an offering to God.
Let the evil person continue to be evil.
My brothers and sisters, you will face all kinds of trouble. When you do, think of it as pure joy.
He will show you a large upstairs room It will have furniture and will be ready Prepare for us to eat there
Nicodemus went with Joseph. He was the man who had earlier visited Jesus at night. Nicodemus brought some mixed spices that weighed about seventy five pounds.
In the same way faith without good deeds is dead
They are not led by the Holy Spirit
It comes from the one who sent me
So when you come together I will be with you in spirit The power of our Lord Jesus will also be with you
Suppose someone claims to be in the light but hates a brother or sister Then they are still in the darkness
He became hungry. He wanted something to eat.
Seven they answered
He wants all of you to learn to control your own bodies. You must live in a way that is holy. You must live with honor.
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High God. The Lord God will make him a king like his father David of long ago.
But test all prophecies.
I want you to grow up
Later Jesus was having dinner at Levi’s house. Many tax collectors and sinners were eating with him and his disciples. They were part of the large crowd following Jesus.
From this mans family line God has brought to Israel the Savior Jesus This is what he had promised
Its the same with you Suppose you have done everything you were told to do Then you should say We are not worthy to serve you We have only done our duty
Is it encouraging others? Then encourage them.
When they have finished speaking the beast that comes up from the Abyss will attack them
Make straight paths for him
Be sure that no one misses out on God’s grace. See to it that a bitter plant doesn’t grow up.
I have a sore throat
So it doesn’t surprise us that Satan’s servants also pretend to be serving God. They will finally get exactly what they deserve.
Everyone says good things about Demetrius. He lives in keeping with the truth. We also say good things about him. And you know that what we say is true.
Brothers and sisters, I couldn’t speak to you as people who live by the Holy Spirit. I had to speak to you as people who were still following the ways of the world. You aren’t growing as Christ wants you to. You are still like babies.
They are hated by God
So I am very happy to brag about how weak I am. Then Christ’s power can rest on me.
But you have a practice at Passover time At that time you ask me to set one prisoner free for you
And my sickness was hard on you. But you weren’t mean to me.
At that time Herod, the ruler of Galilee and Perea, heard reports about Jesus.
It is not based on anything you have done. No one can brag about earning it.
The Servant Who Had No Mercy
Stop crying Jesus said She is not dead She is sleeping
There the chief priests and the Jewish leaders came to Festus They brought their charges against Paul
We have faith So we understand that everything was made when God commanded it
Jesus replied, “That’s right. Elijah does come first. He makes all things new again. So why is it written that the Son of Man must suffer much and not be accepted?
Those who buy something should live as if it were not theirs to keep
You yourselves know that I have used my own hands to meet my needs I have also met the needs of my companions
Lord he said teach us to pray just as John taught his disciples
MATTHEW 
It is the number of a man.
And why would we put ourselves in danger every hour
The Spirit had told Simeon that he would not die before he had seen the Lords Messiah
Scripture says Dont fear what others say they will do to hurt you
Their words have gone out from one end of the world to the other.”
The hope he gave us is good May our Lord Jesus Christ and God our Father
I have been in prison more often.
Now that he lives he lives in the power of God
they are in front of the throne of God
He replied You say that I am
At all times pray by the power of the Spirit Pray all kinds of prayers Be watchful so that you can pray Always keep on praying for all the Lords people
But Isaiah also speaks about what God says concerning Israel. God said,
But we know where this man is from. When the Messiah comes, no one will know where he is from.”
He did not enter by spilling the blood of goats and calves. He entered the Most Holy Room by spilling his own blood. He did it once and for all time. In this way, he paid the price to set us free from sin forever.
Dont fill yourself up with wine Getting drunk will lead to wild living
Satan will be locked away until the onne thousend years are ended.
The door is already locked
You Gentiles be full of joy
He kept on talking until daylight. Then he left.
Then Jesus said Whoever has ears should listen
He had a hungry look
Besides he has brought Greeks into the temple He has made this holy place unclean
Jesus saw two boats at the edge of the water.
You were chosen to do good even if you suffer
All who are forced to serve as slaves should consider their masters worthy of full respect. Then people will not speak evil things against God’s name and against what we teach.
Titus, I am sending you this letter. You are my true son in the faith we share.
I will know this if I come and see you or only hear about you
The law is not based on faith. In fact, it is just the opposite.
See how the farmer waits for the land to produce its rich crop.
You dont want to leave also do you Jesus asked the twelve disciples
All people are like grass
Paul looked right at him
But Judas was one of us. He shared with us in our work for God.”
If Christ lives in you you will live Though your body will die because of sin the Spirit gives you life
he showed us the mystery of his plan. It was in keeping with what he wanted to do. It was what he had planned through Christ.
They teach nothing but human rules.’
They were happy to do it. And of course they owe it to them. The Gentiles have shared in the Jews’ spiritual blessings. So the Gentiles should share their earthly blessings with the Jews.
There are many rooms in my Father’s house.
You know that nothing has kept me from preaching whatever would help you. I have taught you in public and from house to house.
Jesus said, “I am with you for only a short time.
Then he said The God of our people has chosen you
My dear brothers and sisters, pay attention to what I say.Everyone should be quick to listen.
The Story of the Net
The slave womans son will never have a share of the familys property Hell never share it with the free womans son
The Church Is Treated Badly and Scattered
Paul answered, “I am a Jew from Tarsus in Cilicia. I am a citizen of an important city. Please let me speak to the people.”
Try it
Brothers and sisters, you are not in darkness. So that day should not surprise you as a thief would.
After this letter has been read to you send it on Be sure that it is also read to the church in Laodicea And be sure that you read the letter from Laodicea
Make room for us in your hearts. We haven’t done anything wrong to anyone. We haven’t caused anyone to sin. We haven’t taken advantage of anyone.
gleaming with gold jewels and pearls
Jesus and those with him left the synagogue Right away they went with James and John to the home of Simon and Andrew
During our time on earth we groan We long to put on our house in heaven as if it were clothing
“My fellow Israelites, I know you didn’t realize what you were doing. Neither did your leaders.
We and the Lord were your examples
He must not get drunk.
‘I know what you are doing. Look! I have put an open door in front of you. No one can shut it. I know that you don’t have much strength. But you have obeyed my word. You have not said no to me.
Jesus saw they were trying to trick him So he said to them
They should be slow to get angry.
one is ruling,
I am God’s servant, just like believers who hold firmly to what Jesus has taught.
Then another angel came out of the temple. “Take your blade,”
You should not be surprised when I say, ‘You must all be born again.’
You have been born again by means of the living word of God. His word lasts forever.
For the last fourteen days he said you have wondered what would happen You have gone without food You havent eaten anything
Instead perfect love drives away fear
There were James son of Zebedee and his brother John Jesus gave them the name Boanerges Boanerges means Sons of Thunder
After he said that, he showed them his hands and feet.
Fish have still another.
Onesimus was separated from you for a little while Maybe that was so you could have him back forever
Jesus went on to say, “What can I compare today’s people to? What are they like?
It was nearly time for God to make his promise to Abraham come true
So I know I will remain with you
Abraham and his family received a promise God promised that Abraham would receive the world It would not come to him because he obeyed the law It would come because of his faith which made him right with God
But he gives grace to those who are humble.”
Here is my covenant with them
The Trumpets
My dear friends run away from statues of gods Dont worship them
If we claim we have not sinned we are calling God a liar His word is not in us
Who will save me from this sin that brings death to my body?
The Story of the Renters
Then he went up and touched the coffin.
They will not say to one another, ‘Know the Lord.’
As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him, they shouted, “Crucify him! Crucify him!”
jealousy and
I always study hard
Nobody has ever heard of anyone opening the eyes of a person born blind.
We are like the earthly man
Everything written in the past was written to teach us. The Scriptures give us strength to go on. They encourage us and give us hope.
He is the judge.
And the good news is announced to those who are poor.
No matter what happens, live in a way that brings honor to the good news about Christ.
Jesus sat down and called for the  disciples to come to him. Then he said, “Anyone who wants to be first must be the very last. They must be the servant of everyone.”
Then Jesus said to her Woman you have great faith You will be given what you are asking for And her daughter was healed at that moment Jesus Feeds Four Thousand
Do everything you can to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos. Send them on their way. See that they have everything they need.
The Berean Jews were very glad to receive Paul’s message.
All these things should describe you more and more They will make you useful and fruitful as you know our Lord Jesus Christ better
Everyone who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him They turned to the Lord
My brothers and sisters, in this way remain strong in the Lord. I love you and long for you. Dear friends, you are my joy and my crown.
But Paul and Barnabas didn’t agree with this. They argued strongly with them.
They sold property and other things they owned They gave to anyone who needed something
He didn’t say this because he cared about the poor. He said it because he was a thief. Judas was in charge of the money bag. He used to help himself to what was in it.
The beast opened its mouth to speak evil things against God
So from now on we dont look at anyone the way the world does
Well done!
Gods very nature remains in them
God placed all things under Christs rule
Always be joyful because you belong to the Lord.
As long as we are at home in our bodies we are away from the Lord
The spirit has often thrown him into fire or water to kill him But if you can do anything take pity on us Please help us
He also walks among the seven golden lampstands. He says,
The wife’s body does not belong only to her.
Others said, “He is Elijah.”
Children obey your parents as believers in the Lord Obey them because its the right thing to do
They laughed at him They knew she was dead
What Im about to tell you is true Jesus answered It will happen tonight Before the rooster crows you will say three times that you dont know me
I have given you an example. You should do as I have done for you.
In fact none of you can enter a strong mans house unless you tie him up first Then you can steal things from his house
God spoke to some people and called them gods
I can come at three
Brothers and sisters we are not the slave womans children We are the free womans children
We can’t gain anything by bragging. But I have to do it anyway. I am going to tell you what I’ve seen. I want to talk about what the Lord has shown me.
I say this to make you ashamed
God considers us to be the pleasing smell that Christ is spreading. He is spreading it among people who are being saved and people who are dying.
Instructions About Loving and Hating Other Believers
There is a place where someone has spoken about this. He said,
So let us boldly approach God’s throne of grace.
The next day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee
I have come to do what you want, my God.’ ”
I was given a long stick that looked like a measuring rod. I was told, “Go and measure the temple of God. And measure the altar where the people are worshiping.
We went on ahead to the ship We sailed for Assos
But his mother spoke up
When the crowds heard this, they were amazed by what he taught.
The people of the world can’t hate you. But they hate me. This is because I am a witness that their works are evil.
I have a lot to write to you. But I don’t want to use paper and ink. I hope I can visit you instead. Then I can talk with you face to face. That will make our joy complete.
Maybe someone would be willing to die for a good person.
Those things can be seen in what he has made So people have no excuse for what they do
One person’s faith allows them to eat anything.
None of the rulers of this world understood God’s wisdom.
His disciples answered him There is nothing here they said Where could we get enough bread to feed this large crowd
They were supposed to harm only the people without God’s official seal on their foreheads.
This life has appeared.
He replied Instead blessed are those who hear Gods word and obey it
I have written both of them as reminders. I want to encourage you to think in a way that is pure.
He bent down again and wrote on the ground.
A woman was there who had a sickness that made her bleed. It had lasted for twelve years.
God’s temple is holy.
just as Christ is holy.
They must follow the lead of their husbands
The beast was given a mouth to brag and speak evil things against God
It flowed down the middle of the city’s main street.
Greetings
They were dressed in clean, shining linen.
It was like a jasper as clear as crystal
See to it that no one commits sexual sins See to it that no one is godless like Esau
I would like all of you to speak in other languages.
And let us work hard to build up one another.
Instead your beauty comes from inside you
“Two pounds of wheat for a day’s pay. And six pounds of barley for a day’s pay.
He has welcomed me and the whole church here into his house.
Jesus and Beelzebul
In that case you would have to leave this world!
It is true that these rules seem wise. Because of them, people give themselves over to their own kind of worship. They pretend they are humble. They treat their bodies very badly. But rules like these don’t help. They don’t stop people from chasing after sinful pleasures.
You have made this a better nation
“Many are invited, but few are chosen.”
Don’t let anyone look down on you because you are young. Set an example for the believers in what you say and in how you live.
How deep is the hole
So you see those who have faith are children of Abraham
He speaks about what I have just told you
They will certainly hear that you have come
So let us not be like the others. They are asleep.
I just can't solve it.
There will be trouble and
He replied, “Suppose you have faith as small as a mustard seed. Then you can say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be pulled up. Be planted in the sea.’ And it will obey you.
These things are foolish to them. They can’t understand them.
But the Lamb will have victory over them.
His bride has made herself ready
The boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem
He accepts anyone who has respect for him and does what is right
Shem was the son of Noah
But suppose you do suffer for doing what is right Even then you will be blessed Scripture says Dont fear what others say they will do to hurt you Dont be afraid
I hope somehow to stir up my own people to want what you have Perhaps I can save some of them
leading a holy life in a proper way.
King Herod heard about this Jesus name had become well known Some were saying John the Baptist has been raised from the dead That is why he has the power to do miracles
We put a small piece of metal in the mouth of a horse to make it obey us We can control the whole animal with it
I always thank my God when I remember you in my prayers.
Brothers and sisters you are children because of Gods promise just as Isaac was
It includes worshiping statues of gods and worshiping evil powers. It also includes hatred and fighting, jealousy and fits of anger. Sinful desire is interested only in getting ahead. It stirs up trouble. It separates people into their own little groups.
Peter took Jesus to one side and began to scold him. “Never, Lord!” he said. “This will never happen to you!”
They tried very hard to get Festus to have Paul taken to Jerusalem They asked for this as a favor
Jesus heard that. So he said to them, “Those who are healthy don’t need a doctor. Sick people do. I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me. I have come to get sinners to follow me.”
But after the three and a half days the breath of life from God entered the witnesses
Then Death and Hell were thrown into the lake of fire.
In this world you will have trouble
“Be careful,” Jesus warned them. “Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees. And watch out for the yeast of Herod.”
So we are Christ’s official messengers.
In the simplest one-hour job if someone were to say they picked up they would get six hundred 
He has told us that you always have happy memories of us He has also said that you desire to see us just as we desire to see you
The disciples also had a few small fish. Jesus gave thanks for them too. He told the disciples to pass them around.
We know.
The demons begged Jesus, “Send us among the pigs. Let us go into them.”
Jesus told the crowd another story. He said, “The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed. Someone took the seed and planted it in a field.
Love him with all your strength and with all your mind
I serve God with my whole heart I preach the good news about his Son God knows that I always remember you
It was so bad that the boat was about to sink They were in great danger
But in these last days, he has spoken to us through his Son. He is the one whom God appointed to receive all things.
There must not be any bad language or foolish talk or dirty jokes. They are out of place. Instead, you should give thanks.
Anyone who doesnt love still lives in their old condition
They kept asking, We don’t understand what he is saying.”
He shows us that God will keep the promises he made to the founders of our nation.
They will throw the evil people into the blazing furnace. There the evil ones will weep and grind their teeth.
I will speak about things that were hidden since the world was made.”
Come now Let us leave
Scripture says,
There you will be told what you must do
Then Peter began to curse and said to them I dont know the man
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
Still others were saying that a prophet of long ago had come back to life.
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Laodicea
I am with you.
Masters treat your slaves in the same way When you warn them dont be too hard on them You know that the God who is their Master and yours is in heaven And he treats everyone the same
Dear children, don’t just talk about love. Put your love into action. Then it will truly be love.
But anyone who says yes to the Son belongs to the Father also
You will say, “Some branches were broken off so that I could be joined to the tree.”
From the beginning we have heard that we should love one another
Jesus did not say a word So his disciples came to him They begged him Send her away She keeps crying out after us
Because of his faith he worshiped God Jacob worshiped as he leaned on the top of his walking stick
With a mighty voice he shouted
She made the earth impure with her terrible sins.
He said to them I have really looked forward to eating this Passover meal with you I wanted to do this before I suffer
But later he destroyed those who did not believe
First Christ said, “You didn’t want sacrifices and offerings.
In the same way, the women must be worthy of respect. They must not say things that harm others. In anything they do, they must not go too far. They must be worthy of trust in everything.
-Gaius sends you his greetings. He has welcomed me and the whole church here into his house.
He must become more important. I must become less important.
Didn’t the land belong to you before it was sold? After it was sold, you could have used the money as you wished.
The mans ears were opened His tongue was freed up and he began to speak clearly
In fact there are many gods and many lords
He didnt die He couldnt be found because God had taken him away
All the people in the synagogue were very angry when they heard that.
By now it was early morning
Eubulus greets you. So do Pudens, Linus, Claudia and all the brothers and sisters.
They were so angry they ground their teeth at Stephen
Here is the meaning of the mystery
He has done mighty things with his powerful arm.
Death doesnt control him anymore
Show me the coin people use for paying the tax.” They brought him a silver coin.
Then Jesus replied, “Didn’t I choose you,
There were one hundred fourity four thousend from all the tribes of Israel
Now I want to talk about some other matters. Brothers and sisters, pray for us.
“Every sea captain
If anyone loves the world,
So Paul and Barnabas spent a lot of time there They spoke boldly for the Lord
Hurry up.
“Be careful not to do good deeds in front of other people. Don’t do those deeds to be seen by others. If you do, your Father in heaven will not reward you.
His face was like the sun shining in all its brightness.
Suppose you call yourself a Jew
There is only one God When those who are circumcised believe in him he makes them right with himself Suppose those who are not circumcised believe in him Then God also will make them right with himself
Abraham did this because he believed that God could even raise the dead
I have received my full pay and have more than enough. I have everything I need.
If you know about them, you will have a safe path to follow.
I wish I could swim.
One was on each side of him Jesus was in the middle
It made the earth and all who live on it worship the first beast. The first beast was the one whose deadly wound had been healed.
A priest happened to be going down that same road. When he saw the man, he passed by on the other side.
It said, “Look! God now makes his home with the people.
Instead be humble
Dear friends, do not believe every spirit. Test the spirits to see if they belong to God. Many false prophets have gone out into the world.
They will whip him and kill him. On the third day, he will rise from the dead!”
So they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down
Everyone will be salted with fire.
Nahor was the son of Serug
Its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand
Jesus also did many other things.
In the church I wouldnt want to speak ten thousend words in an unfamiliar language Id rather speak five words in a language people could understand Then I would be teaching others
Because of Lazarus, many of the Jews were starting to follow Jesus. They were believing in him.
You are suffering for his kingdom
“The one who comes from above is above everything.
“Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What should I do? I have a son, and I love him. I will send him. Maybe they will respect him.’
Then he prayed again.
You are children of the day.
At that moment one of Jesus companions reached for his sword He pulled it out and struck the slave of the high priest with it He cut off the slaves ear
It was now about noon. Then darkness covered the whole land until three o’clock.
So it doesnt surprise us that Satans servants also pretend to be serving God
But the commander didn’t listen to what Paul said. Instead, he followed the advice of the pilot and the ship’s owner.
Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies. They had gathered together to make war against the rider on the horse and his army.
But the chief priests and the elders talked the crowd into asking for Barabbas and having Jesus put to death.
After this I looked and I saw the temple in heaven And it was opened The temple is the holy tent where the tablets of the covenant law were kept
Jesus entered the temple courtyard. He began to drive out all those who were buying and selling there. He turned over the tables of the people who were exchanging money. He also turned over the benches of those who were selling doves.
The Story of the Net
Then John told them, “I saw the Holy Spirit come down from heaven like a dove. The Spirit remained on Jesus.
When all of them had enough to eat Jesus spoke to his disciples
My heart is full of sorrow My sadness never ends
All the people of Athens spent their time talking about and listening to the latest ideas. People from other lands who lived there did the same.
He asked this only to test Philip He already knew what he was going to do
His family heard about this. So they went to take charge of him. They said, “He is out of his mind.”
Jesus replied, “And why don’t you obey God’s command? You would rather follow your own teachings!
And thats not all
She went out and said to her mother What should I ask for
“What can we do with these men?” they asked.
What do we find in Scripture?
Stand up to the devil
Be careful of how you live and what you believe
He approached Jerusalem. When he saw the city, he began to weep.
We know that you suffer just as we do. In the same way, God comforts you just as he comforts us.
evil things people do. They are so evil that they say no to the truth.
The woman said to him Sir give me this water
Someone else may think they have reasons to trust in these things. But I have even more.
They should ask the elders to anoint them with olive oil in the name of the Lord
They should bring charges if they have anything against me.
Here is the judgment. Light has come into the world, but people loved darkness instead of light. They loved darkness because what they did was evil.
A man named Barabbas was in prison. He was there with some other people who had fought against the country’s rulers. They had committed murder while they were fighting against the rulers.
Instead you yourselves cheat and do wrong And you do it to your brothers and sisters
Take it
They have turned away from the truth. They say that the time when people will rise from the dead has already come. They destroy the faith of some people.
What the proverbs say about them is true.
And what if we turn away from the one who warns us from heaven How much less will we escape
I wanted to know why they were bringing charges against him So I brought him to their Sanhedrin
It also had reptiles and birds in it.
So how do you think you will escape when God judges you?
They run quickly to commit murder
But they kept it up. They said, “His teaching stirs up the people all over Judea. He started in Galilee and has come all the way here.”
If I love you more, will you love me less?
Why me?
The end of all things is near.
I keep every thought under control in order to make it obey Christ
It makes them go where the captain wants to go
God promised, “I will return at the appointed time.
We know that those who are children of God do not keep on sinning.
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for something to use against Jesus They wanted to put him to death
“God made it hard for them to understand.
“You have answered correctly,” Jesus replied.
I am not even like this tax collector
He gives eternal life to all those you have given him.
That’s because God chose us to live pure lives. He wants us to be holy.
One of the women listening was from the city of Thyatira Her name was Lydia and her business was selling purple cloth
You foolish people
But someone who works for the honor of the one who sent him is truthful.
So the commanding officer ordered that Paul be taken into the fort. He gave orders for Paul to be whipped and questioned. He wanted to find out why the people were shouting at him like this.
They will tell lies about people
Our Lord Jesus is the great Shepherd of the sheep. The God who gives peace brought him back from the dead. He did it because of the blood of the eternal covenant.
“At that time Moses was born.
Now I want to deal with food sacrificed to statues of gods. We know that “We all have knowledge.” But knowledge makes people proud, while love builds them up.
Are you engaged to a woman Then dont try to get out of it Are you free from such a promise Then dont look for a wife
Dear children, I’m writing to you because you know the Father.
“Your family line will continue through Isaac.”
No one has seen him.
“It isn’t because this man sinned,” said Jesus. “It isn’t because his parents sinned. He was born blind so that God’s power could be shown by what’s going to happen.
“That is how the great city of Babylon will be thrown down.
But those he ruled over hated him They sent some messengers after him They were sent to say We dont want this man to be our king
So Jesus went with him.
Am I a Jew Pilate replied
After he said this, he spit on the ground. He made some mud with the spit. Then he put the mud on the man’s eyes.
At one time you were in the dark.
We don’t want Satan to outsmart us. We know how he does his evil work.
I will try it again
It was also done by the Spirit of our God
And suppose you do good to those who are good to you Should anyone praise you for that Even sinners do that
What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who believes in me will do the works I have been doing. In fact, they will do even greater things. That’s because I am going to the Father.
The same Lord is Lord of all
If people hated me and tried to hurt me, they will do the same to you.
The name Barnabas means Son of Help
The authority on the law replied The one who felt sorry for him
Jesus finished saying all these things The crowds were amazed at his teaching
Lysanias was ruler of Abilene.
The Son is the exact likeness of God who cant be seen
Then Jesus said to them, “Don’t you understand this story? Then how will you understand any stories of this kind?
Who was God angry with for fourty years? Wasn’t it with those who sinned? They died in the desert.
Honor people like him.
Go in peace.”
The person who does what is right is holy,
sisters don’t let anyone fool you.
You will not leave me in the place of the dead.
But now we have died to what used to control us We have been set free from the law
Everyone who sins is a slave of sin.
But what does it say
She turned toward him. Then she cried out in the Aramaic language, “Rabboni!” Rabboni means Teacher.
Then they turned again to the blind man.
Right away Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. “Your faith is so small!” he said. “Why did you doubt me?”
The next day Paul and the rest of us went to see James
The time has come to judge the dead
Despite making requests and pledges to ageing organizations, the Esk now could not go into action።
Those who passed by shouted at Jesus and made fun of him They shook their heads and said So you are going to destroy the temple and build it again in three days
And since it begins with us, what will happen to people who don’t obey God’s good news?
Jesus Walks on the Water
But if you do marry someone, you have not sinned.
I'll drive you home.
The promise is based on Gods grace
Remember what I told you. I said, ‘A slave is not more important than his master.’ If people hated me and tried to hurt me, they will do the same to you. If they obeyed my teaching, they will obey yours also.
Pray also for me Pray that whenever I speak the right words will be given to me Then I can be bold as I tell the mystery of the good news
Write about what is happening now
Let me in
Some time after this, Jesus crossed over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. It is also called the Sea of Tiberias.
Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan River. He wanted to be baptized by John.
Then those who are in Judea should escape to the mountains.
Isn’t the potter free to make different kinds of pots out of the same lump of clay? Some are for special purposes. Others are for ordinary use.
Jesus said this because the teachers of the law were saying, “He has an evil spirit.”
They still did not believe that the man had been blind and now could see. So they sent for his parents.
Then Christ will live in your hearts because you believe in him And I pray that your love will have deep roots I pray that it will have a strong foundation
Arent you supposed to judge those inside the church
They can barely hear with their ears.
Again, here is what I ask.
When they entered the tomb, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
I wish all of you were single like me But you each have your own gift from God One has this gift and another has that one
be tender.
As soon as I heard the sound of your voice the baby inside me jumped for joy
Brothers and sisters we want to ask you something It has to do with the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ It concerns the time when we will go to be with him
In any case, I haven’t caused you any expense. But I’m so tricky! I have caught you by tricking you! Or so you think! Did I take advantage of you through any of the men I sent to you?
Then he told them, “Now dip some out. Take it to the person in charge of the dinner.”
So I will always remind you of these things. I’ll do it even though you know them. I’ll do it even though you now have deep roots in the truth.
Then I heard the altar reply It said
But they didn’t.
Jesus got out of the boat. A man controlled by an evil spirit came from the tombs to meet him.
Jesus answered, “I saw you while you were still under the fig tree. I saw you there before Philip called you.”
We will turn this important work over to them.
After he said this he took his last breath
People have tamed all kinds of wild animals
The man lived in the tombs. No one could keep him tied up anymore. Not even a chain could hold him.
I know what I’m going to do. I’ll do something so that when I lose my job here, people will welcome me into their houses.’
They are not turning their back on us
See that they have everything they need
A large crowd gathered together. People came to Jesus from town after town. As they did, he told a story. He said,
I will call those who are not my people my people
They started on their journey to serve Jesus Christ. They didn’t receive any help from those who aren’t believers.
Those bringing charges against him got up to speak. But they didn’t charge him with any of the crimes I had expected.
But a new time is coming. In fact, it is already here. True worshipers will worship the Father in the Spirit and in truth.
Challenge to What Jesus Says About Himself
As the men were leaving Jesus, Peter spoke up. “Master,” he said to him, “it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters. One will be for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.” Peter didn’t really know what he was saying.
Father keep me from having to go through with this No
After that, he appeared to more than  brothers and sisters at the same time. Most of them are still living. But some have died.
He gave his life to pay for our sins. But he not only paid for our sins. He also paid for the sins of the whole world.
In the same way the Holy Spirit helps us when we are weak
In the same way we share his weakness But by Gods power we will live with Christ as we serve you
What will happen is even surer than this Those who receive the rich supply of Gods grace will rule with Christ
When Moses was  years old he decided to visit the people of Israel They were his own people
Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee. They went to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go.
But I didn’t do the work. God’s grace was with me.
Share with the Lord’s people who are in need.
And what is eternal life It is knowing you the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent
Then Pilate spoke to the chief priests and the crowd. He announced, “I find no basis for a charge against this man.”
So Paul was called in Tertullus began to bring the charges against Paul He said to Felix We have enjoyed a long time of peace while you have been ruling
The moon will turn red like blood.
The great city split into three parts.
“The traders of the world will weep and mourn over her. No one buys what they sell anymore.
But he took her by the hand and said My child get up
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates. Its water dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the East.
I do not understand
Make straight paths for him.
He gave Babylon the cup filled with the wine of his terrible anger.
You are not faithful to God. Don’t you know that to be a friend of the world is to hate God? So anyone who chooses to be the world’s friend becomes God’s enemy.
When they opened the door and saw him they were amazed
Everyone will be salted with fire
“‘Why are the nations angry?
Peter went with them When he arrived he was taken upstairs to the room
“I baptize you with water.
They were written also for us. We believe in the God who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. So God will accept our faith and make us right with himself.
But there are others who only look out for themselves They dont accept the truth They go astray God will pour out his great anger on them
And the world listens to them
The Holy Spirit told Philip, “Go to that chariot. Stay near it.”
I am absolutely sure that nothing is “unclean” in itself. The Lord Jesus has convinced me of this.
He gave freely to people who were in need
Keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters.
The Jewish leaders replied We have a law
Rebekahs children were born at the same time by the same father He was our father Isaac
So even though I wrote to you it wasnt because of the one who did the wrong
Thomas said to him, “My Lord and my God!”
Large crowds followed him People came from Galilee from the area known as the Ten Cities and from Jerusalem and Judea Others came from the area across the Jordan River
The beast and the ten horns you saw will hate the prostitute. They will destroy her and leave her naked. They will eat her flesh and burn her with fire.
I don’t dare to compare myself with those who praise themselves. I’m not that kind of person. They measure themselves by themselves. They compare themselves with themselves. When they do that, they are not wise.
At sunset people brought to Jesus all who were sick
He walked and jumped and praised God
There were many priests in Levi’s family line. Death kept them from continuing in office.
So they went
Then the evil spirits gathered the kings together In the Hebrew language the place where the kings met is called Armageddon
Suppose it was different from the one you accepted earlier. You put up with those kinds of things easily enough.
We should not test the Messiah, as some of them did. They were killed by snakes.
That was God’s plan from the beginning. He has fulfilled his plan through Christ Jesus our Lord.
When they come from the market they do not eat unless they wash And they follow many other teachings For example they wash cups pitchers and kettles in a special way
They ran out of the house naked and bleeding.
He will be destroyed.
One day Johns disciples came They said to Jesus We and the Pharisees often go without eating Why dont your disciples go without eating
As a mother feeds and cares for her little children we cared for you
Do you think of me as a believer who works together with you Then welcome Onesimus as you would welcome me
He came over to us. Then he took Paul’s belt and tied his own hands and feet with it.
Some people plant to please their desires controlled by sin. From these desires they will harvest death. Others plant to please the Holy Spirit. From the Spirit they will harvest eternal life.
The woman was dressed in purple and bright red
Then the father realized what had happened. That was the exact time Jesus had said to him, “Your son will live.”
Some slaves have masters who are believers
The people of Jerusalem and their rulers did not recognize Jesus. By finding him guilty, they made the prophets’ words come true. These are read every Sabbath day.
The light was seen by my companions But they didnt understand the voice of the one speaking to me
I saw a great white throne
Then Jesus looked at the people sitting in a circle around himHesaid
The Seven Bowls of Gods Great Anger
When you do these things, keep in mind the times we are living in. The hour has already come for you to wake up from your sleep.
Right away, the man stood up in front of them.
He said to Peter, “Didn’t I see you with Jesus in the garden?”
And he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea
Jesus answered Arent there twelve hours of daylight
They give life.
Also, demons came out of many people. The demons shouted, “You are the Son of God!” But he commanded them to be quiet. He would not allow them to speak, because they knew he was the Messiah.
He will run away from you
Teacher he asked which is the most important commandment in the Law
None! I would need to come with new truth or knowledge. Or I would need to come with a prophecy or a teaching.
God does not take back his gifts He does not change his mind about those he has chosen
It is easier for heaven and earth to disappear than for the smallest part of a letter to drop out of the Law
‘I am coming soon.
When the Lord saw her, he felt sorry for her. So he said, “Don’t cry.”
Melki was the son of Jannai.
So he said to them Any kingdom that fights against itself will be destroyed
But he made his appeal to the Emperor. So I decided to send him to Rome.
But test all prophecies. Hold on to what is good.
Scripture says, “When you are angry, do not sin.”  Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry.
Don’t you know that when you give yourselves to obey someone you become that person’s slave? If you are slaves of sin, then you will die. But if you are slaves who obey God, then you will live a godly life.
In Scripture, God says to Pharaoh, “I had a special reason for making you king.
The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath day
We want you to be very strong, in keeping with his glorious power. We want you to be patient. We pray that you will never give up.
Dont collect any more than you are required to
Christ Jesus saves them He gives them glory that will last forever
Then one of the four living creatures gave seven golden bowls to the seven angels. The bowls were filled with the anger of God, who lives for ever and ever.
So the men were sent down to Antioch.
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ. The head of the woman is the man. And the head of Christ is God.
You dont realize what is good for you It is better if one man dies for the people than if the whole nation is destroyed
Woman came from man, and man is born from woman. But everything comes from God.
He was about to give the people reasons for his actions.
The last group acts out of love. They know I have been put here to be a witness for the good news.
While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit spoke. “Set apart Barnabas and Saul for me,” he said. “I have appointed them to do special work.”
So the churches were made strong in the faith
Because you believed the good news you are saved But you must hold firmly to the message I preached to you
He dipped the piece of bread. Then he gave it to Judas, son of Simon Iscariot.
There he met a Jew named Aquila, who was a native of Pontus. Aquila had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla. The emperor Claudius had ordered all Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to see Aquila and Priscilla.
We are trying hard to do what both the Lord and people think is right.
“Be quiet!” Jesus said firmly. “Come out of him!” Then the demon threw the man down in front of everybody. And it came out without hurting him.
“Do not stop him,” Jesus said. “For no one who does a miracle in my name can in the next moment say anything bad about me.
He and everyone with him were amazed at the number of fish they had caught.
Two Kinds of Olive Branches
My Father wants all who look to the Son and believe in him to have eternal life
They were on their way up to Jerusalem. Jesus was leading the way. The disciples were amazed. Those who followed were afraid. Again Jesus took the  disciples to one side. He told them what was going to happen to him.
His love for you is even greater when he remembers that you all obeyed his teaching. You received him with fear and trembling.
Greet each other with a kiss of friendship.
What Im about to tell you is true What she has done will be told anywhere this good news is preached all over the world It will be told in memory of her
The first they answered
They had to wait until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.
“Then the servant fell on his knees in front of him. ‘Give me time,’ he begged. ‘I’ll pay everything back.’
I have received my full pay and have more than enough. I have everything I need. That’s because Epaphroditus brought me the gifts you sent. They are a sweet-smelling offering. They are a gift that God accepts. He is pleased with it.
Everyone who asks will receive.
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I am an apostle of Christ Jesus, just as God our Savior commanded.
“I replied, ‘No, Lord! I will not!
A time is coming when you will be scattered and go to your own homes
No one lights a lamp and then hides it in a clay jar or puts it under a bed
Then I saw a scroll in the right hand of the one sitting on the throne The scroll had writing on both sides It was sealed with seven seals
Come along.
The blood of Christ has made us right with God. So we are even surer that Jesus will save us from God’s anger.
‘I know what you are doing. You work long and hard. I know you can’t put up with evil people. You have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not. You have found out that they are liars.
At Iconium Paul and Barnabas went into the Jewish synagogue as usual They spoke there with great power
From the tribe of Joseph, tewelve thousend.
Paul was waiting for Silas and Timothy in Athens. He was very upset to see that the city was full of statues of gods.
At that same time there was a powerful earthquake.
A new tomb was there. No one had ever been put in it before.
The city clerk quieted the crowd down. “People of Ephesus!” he said. “The city of Ephesus guards the temple of the great Artemis. The whole world knows this. They know that Ephesus guards her statue, which fell from heaven.
Look your house is left empty
“ ‘Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God who rules over all.’
So the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin
When Paul saw these people he thanked God for them and was encouraged by them
This happened so that the words Jesus had spoken would come true.
So he went to Jesus and begged him to come and heal his son. The boy was close to death.
There were so many that their nets began to break.
You went to wild parties.
If we ask anything in keeping with what he wants he hears us
Some in the crowd shouted one thing, some another. But the commander couldn’t get the facts because of all the noise. So he ordered that Paul be taken into the fort.
Once more Jesus went away and prayed the same thing
God answered Jesus because he truly honored God
For a while you won’t even be able to see the light of the sun.”
A person is not a Jew if they are a Jew only on the outside.
Abel had faith So he brought to God a better offering than Cain did
He didn’t even say these things when he argued with the devil about the body of Moses.
And Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers At that time the Jewish people were forced to go away to Babylon
The third angel blew his trumpet. Then a great star fell from the sky. It looked like a blazing torch. It fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water.
Jesus said, “My kingdom is not from this world. If it were, those who serve me would fight. They would try to keep the Jewish leaders from arresting me. My kingdom is from another place.”
Hasn’t anyone found you guilty?”
Later Jesus found him at the temple. Jesus said to him, “See, you are well again.
Even while Jesus was speaking many people believed in him
But someone here is going to hand me over to my enemies His hand is with mine on the table
They must not give anyone a reason to say that they are wild and dont obey
They must be worthy of trust in everything
But when you ask you must believe You must not doubt
“Have any of the rulers or Pharisees believed in him?
I will show signs on the earth below.
And dont stop people from speaking in languages they had not known before
Keep on remembering those in prison. Do this as if you were together with them in prison. And remember those who are treated badly as if you yourselves were suffering.
But when I preach the good news, I can’t brag.
It is written, “The one who gathered a lot didn’t have too much.
you won’t have to depend on anyone.
So love one another deeply from your hearts
The commanding officer let the young man go. But he gave him a warning. “Don’t tell anyone you have reported this to me,” he said.
Now there is no more place for me to work in those areas. For many years I have wanted to visit you.
“He put mud on my eyes,” the man replied.
Here is what the angel told me to write. “Blessed are those invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb!” Then he added, “These are the true words of God.”
Obey them because it’s the right thing to do.
You have taken with you the star of your false god Rephan.
"The Agaw saw what she was out of without singing"
The man of sin will show his power through all kinds of signs and wonders
Moses was taught all the knowledge of the people of Egypt
Abraham replied They have the teachings of Moses and the Prophets Let your brothers listen to them
This happens so that his life can also be shown in our earthly bodies.
Because he is at my right hand,
Then Jesus came to them. He said, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Then Jesus said to his disciples The harvest is huge But there are only a few workers
Jesus wept
But then they became completely awake. They saw Jesus’ glory and the two men standing with him.
The rich man answered Then I beg you father Abraham Send Lazarus to my family
I must help my mother
But as they go on their way, they are choked by life’s worries, riches and pleasures. So they do not reach full growth.
Keep watch! Stay awake! You do not know when that time will come.
It will be a boy and you must call him John
He said to his attendants, “This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead! That is why he has the power to do miracles.”
In the same way, the men turned away from their natural love for women. They burned with sexual desire for each other. Men did shameful things with other men. They suffered in their bodies for all the wrong things they did.
The Holy Spirit told Philip
Men did shameful things with other men
Don’t those who eat the offerings share in the altar?
The crowd that followed kept shouting Get rid of him
I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me I have come to get sinners to turn away from their sins
Didn’t God consider even Rahab the prostitute to be right with him? That’s because of what she did for the spies. She gave them a place to stay. Then she sent them off in a different direction.
And this was the way it was with me brothers and sisters When I came to you I didnt come with fancy words or human wisdom I preached to you the truth about Gods love
At that very moment the men sent by Cornelius found Simon’s house. They stopped at the gate
he will forgive our sins. He will forgive every wrong thing we have done. He will make us pure.
God’s very nature remains in them.
“My friends,” he said, “you know that we make good money from our work.
Others said, “No. He only looks like him.”
God has given people no other name under heaven that will save them
But what if they wont listen to you Then take one or two others with you Scripture says Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses
The men had not eaten for a long time.
Where is the wise person
Work to make things right with one another
By God’s word the heavens and earths of today are being reserved for fire. They are being kept for the day when God will judge. Then ungodly people will be destroyed.
Suppose someone sees a brother or sister in need and is able to help them
Final Words
They want you to commit yourselves to them
What does he mean by a little while
You will look for me, but you won’t find me. You can’t come where I am going.”
The serpent is also called the devil, or Satan. The angel put him in chains for one thousend year.
Jesus Is Buried
When he saw Jesus a long way off, he ran to him. He fell on his knees in front of him.
The disciples talked about this among themselves They said He must be saying this because we didnt bring any bread
They will have that light. They will have life.”
But if anyone obeys God’s word, then that person truly loves God. Here is how we know we belong to him.
The woman said, “I know that Messiah is coming.” Messiah means Christ.
Again Peter said no
Here is how you can tell the difference between Gods children and the devils children Anyone who doesnt do what is right isnt Gods child And anyone who doesnt love their brother or sister isnt Gods child either
My brothers and sisters, you were chosen to be free.
No matter what happens live in a way that brings honor to the good news about Christ
So they agreed to give the beast their royal authority.
Follow my example, just as I follow the example of Christ.
In a loud voice he said, “Have respect for God. Give him glory. The hour has come for God to judge. Worship him who made the heavens and the earth. Worship him who made the sea and the springs of water.”
They fade away even as they go about their business.
Im sending Onesimus back to you All my love for him goes with him
Then it will be ready as a gift freely given. It will not be given by force.
We were full of evil. We wanted what belongs to others. People hated us, and we hated one another.
While Jesus was still speaking someone came from the house of Jairus Jairus was the synagogue leader
Do not think I will bring charges against you in front of the Father
It looked like a blazing torch
God has placed each part in the body just as he wanted it to be
My brothers he said I have always done my duty to God To this day I feel that I have done nothing wrong
She is going to have a son. You must give him the name Jesus. That’s because he will save his people from their sins.”
Then he appeared to all the apostles.
How high is Mt. Fuji?
So the commanding officer went to Paul Tell me he asked Are you a Roman citizen
You have loved what is right and hated what is evil
A husband also must love his wife He must love her just as he loves himself
By being baptized we were buried with Christ into his death Christ has been raised from the dead by the Fathers glory And like Christ we also can live a new life
He said this even though they were offered in keeping with the law
But put Gods kingdom first Then those other things will also be given to you
When he finished speaking he turned to Simon Jesus said Go out into deep water
They will turn against their friends They will act without thinking They will think they are better than others They will love what pleases them instead of loving God
So the front of it got stuck and wouldn’t move.
When we break the bread, aren’t we sharing in the body of Christ?
But no one knows about that day or hour Not even the angels in heaven know The Son does not know Only the Father knows
My brothers and sisters, I am sure that you are full of goodness.
Your salvation doesn’t come from anything you do. It is God’s gift.
Then he went up to the temple courtyard and began to teach.
We are not like Moses. He used to cover his face with a veil. That was to keep the people of Israel from seeing the end of what was passing away.
After Herod died, Joseph had a dream while he was still in Egypt. In the dream an angel of the Lord appeared to him.
Finally I want all of you to agree with one another
There was a man sent from God. His name was John.
I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of Gods holy people They are the ones who are witnesses about Jesus
Get up and go downstairs
But some of them said, “He opened the eyes of the blind man. Couldn’t he have kept this man from dying?”
I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem. It was coming down out of heaven from God. It was prepared like a bride beautifully dressed for her husband.
Remember Alexander the one who works with metal He did me a great deal of harm The Lord will pay him back for what he has done
So Jesus called them over to him He began to speak to them using stories
In that way God will be all in all
Peter asked her, “How could you agree to test the Spirit of the Lord? Listen! You can hear the steps of the men who buried your husband. They are at the door. They will carry you out also.”
He said,“‘In the last days, God says,
Here is what I tell you You must be more godly than the Pharisees and the teachers of the law If you are not you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heavenMurder
From the throne came flashes of lightning rumblings and thunder
Why were you looking for me he asked
God said, ‘Honor your father and mother.’  He also said, ‘Anyone who asks for bad things to happen to their father or mother must be put to death.’
The eleventh was made out of jacinth
“You will hear but never understand.
Those bringing charges against me did not find me arguing with anyone at the temple.
They came to John and here is what they said to him Rabbi that man who was with you on the other side of the Jordan River is baptizing people
We trust in the Lord So we are sure that you are doing the things we tell you to do And we are sure that you will keep on doing them
“Teacher,” they said, “Moses wrote for us about a man’s brother who dies. Suppose the brother leaves a wife but has no children. Then the man must marry the widow. He must provide children to carry on his dead brother’s name.
Then Peter took him by the right hand and helped him up
“Then people will hand you over to be treated badly and killed. All nations will hate you because of me.
I spoke in private to those who are respected as leaders
He does not sin.
For a while you chose to enjoy his light.
Never again will they be thirsty
There is one God and Father of all He is over everything He is through everything He is in everything
Right away he could see. He followed Jesus, praising God. When all the people saw it, they also praised God.
When he shouted, the voices of the seven thunders spoke.
He is angry with you.
But later he destroyed those who did not believe.
In the same way, the men turned away from their natural love for women. They burned with sexual desire for each other.
But since you claim you can see you remain guilty
He was an attendant of Sergius Paulus, the governor. Paulus was a man of understanding. He sent for Barnabas and Saul. He wanted to hear God’s word.
She came from very far away to listen to Solomon’s wisdom.
The Story of the Weeds
Thats how we know that these are the last days
And it was opened The temple is the holy tent where the tablets of the covenant law were kept
Then he divides up what he has stolen.
The wisdom of this world is foolish in Gods eyes It is written God catches wise people in their own evil plans
As it is, we are in danger of being charged with a crime. We could be charged with causing all this trouble today. There is no reason for it. So we wouldn’t be able to explain what has happened.”
Then they said, “Why do we need any more witnesses? We have heard it from his own lips.”
We have put our hope in him He will continue to save us
‘Father, keep me from having to go through with this’? No.
He does it so they won’t believe. Then they can’t be saved.
Its true that I also baptized those who live in the house of Stephanas
But he replied The one who made me well said to me
Instead, your beauty comes from inside you.
We are witnesses about what we have seen
Can any of you prove I am guilty of sinning?
He said to them, “Two men went up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee. The other was a tax collector.
This is how the holy women of the past used to make them beautiful. They put their hope in God. And they followed the lead of their own husbands.
Jesus told them a story Look at the fig tree and all the trees he said
They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead.
That day was the Jewish Preparation Day
God has commanded us to believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ He has also commanded us to love one another
God is fair He will pay back trouble to those who give you trouble
Jesus told them still another story
He replied, “In the evening you look at the sky. You say, ‘It will be good weather. The sky is red.’
They even enjoyed what they had made with their own hands
God wisely planned that the world would not know him through its own wisdom. It pleased God to use the foolish things we preach to save those who believe.
The wisdom of this world is foolish in God’s eyes. It is written, “God catches wise people in their own evil plans.”
Jesus replied, “How terrible for you authorities on the law! You put such heavy loads on people that they can hardly carry them. But you yourselves will not lift one finger to help them.
-Two women will be grinding grain together
I don’t know if that man was in his body or out of it. Only God knows. But I do know that
May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord give you grace, mercy and peace.
Jesus answered It is written Man must not live only on bread He must also live on every word that comes from the mouth of God
A person’s mouth says everything that is in their heart.
If there is no one to explain the person speaking should keep quiet in the church
They did more than we expected. First they gave themselves to the Lord.
So God gave his word when he made his promise. He wanted to make it very clear that his purpose does not change.
Then how will we escape if we dont pay attention to Gods great salvation
What if some Jews were not faithful Will the fact that they werent faithful keep God from being faithful
Now there is a crown waiting for me.
They think that I live the way the people of this world live
I have five brothers. Let Lazarus warn them. Then they will not come to this place of terrible suffering.’
I can be happy that I didnt run or work for nothing
Either way, all of you share in God’s grace together with me.
Right away they left the boat and their father and followed Jesus.
“Father, you are holy. The world does not know you, but I know you.
Our brothers are messengers from the churches. They honor Christ.
Two chains held him there Lookouts stood guard at the entrance
Doesnt he say that for us
Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
It had all kinds of four-footed animals in it.
But I know him
But the Lord saved me from all my troubles.
Weren’t you joined to an olive tree that was taken care of?
Do you really want to give? Then the gift is measured by what someone has. It is not measured by what they don’t have.
And what kind of people should you be
They do this by teaching things they shouldnt They do these things to cheat people
But it is only a copy and shadow of what is in heaven
He said to Moses,
Brothers and sisters, you are loved by God. We know that he has chosen you.
So I spoke to Peter in front of them all You are a Jew I said
Moses was faithful in everything he did in the house of God In the same way Jesus was faithful to the God who appointed him
He had James killed with a sword James was Johns brother
The disciple who had reached the tomb first also went inside. He saw and believed.
Honor others more than yourselves.
God gave us his Spirit And the Spirit doesnt make us weak and fearful Instead the Spirit gives us power and love He helps us control ourselves
I don’t pray so that people will see that I have passed the test.
The family of believers throughout the world is going through the same thing.
Then a voice came from heaven
So the words spoken by the prophet came true. He had said,“I will open my mouth and tell stories.
Pray that we can live peaceful and quiet lives And pray that we will be godly and holy
In fact the law requires that nearly everything be made clean with blood Without the spilling of blood no one can be forgiven
you have forgotten to be fair and to love God
But in these last days, he has spoken to us through his Son. He is the one whom God appointed to receive all things. God also made everything through him.
Long ago your people ate manna and died
The God who promised is faithful
May Onesiphorus find mercy from the Lord on the day Jesus returns as judge! You know very well how many ways Onesiphorus helped me in Ephesus.
May you be without blame from now until our Lord Jesus Christ comes.
The beast was allowed to make war against God’s holy people and to overcome them.
Thats true But they were broken off because they didnt believe You stand only because you do believe So dont be proud but tremble
So that day should not surprise you as a thief would
Jesus said do not murder Do not commit adultery Do not steal Do not be a false witness
For God the Father has put his seal of approval on him.”
The moon will not shine.
Put on the helmet of salvation And take the sword of the Holy Spirit The sword is Gods word
As you eat, some of you go ahead and eat your own private meals. Because of this, one person stays hungry and another gets drunk.
Long ago our people ate the manna in the desert. It is written in Scripture, ‘The Lord gave them bread from heaven to eat.’ ”
Paul Gives Thanks
Suppose I have the gift of prophecy. Suppose I can understand all the secret things of God and know everything about him. And suppose I have enough faith to move mountains. If I don’t have love, I am nothing at all.
will be with them to keep them safe
I wish that you really had begun to rule. Then we could also rule with you!
You are called uncircumcised by those who call themselves circumcised
Everyone will hate you because of me
Our good news didn’t come to you only in words. It came with power. It came with the Holy Spirit’s help. He gave us complete faith in what we were preaching. You know how we lived among you for your good.
He slipped away from the temple area.
If no one rises from the dead then not even Christ has been raised
He did only a few miracles in Nazareth because the people there had no faith.
Always be ready to give an answer to anyone who asks you about the hope you have.
At the right time we will gather a crop if we dont give up
He took his mat and went home praising God.
This is my blood of the covenant he said to them It is poured out for many
This is the first resurrection
This agrees with what the Lord has said. When the Lord comes, many of us will still be alive. We tell you that we will certainly not go up before those who have died.
Yes we are Gods children So we shouldnt think that God is made out of gold or silver or stone He isnt a statue planned and made by clever people
We give thanks for the cup at the Lords Supper When we do arent we sharing in the blood of Christ
He prowls around looking for someone to swallow up
They told Aaron, ‘Make us a god who will lead us.
The person without the Spirit doesnt accept the things that come from the Spirit of God These things are foolish to them They cant understand them In fact such things cant be understood without the Spirits help
“You are worthy to take the scroll
The disciples talked about this among themselves. They said, “He must be saying this because we didn’t bring any bread.”
One of the people at the table with Jesus heard him say those things So he said to Jesus Blessed is the one who will eat at the feast in Gods kingdom
and called out They asked if Simon Peter was staying there
Are we trying to make the Lord jealous Are we stronger than he is
I have held them out to a stubborn people who do not obey me.”
“The gods have come down to us in human form!” they exclaimed.
He will oppose everything that is called God He will oppose everything that is worshiped
I passed on to you what I received from the Lord
The high priest enters the Most Holy Room every year. He enters with blood that is not his own.
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Smyrna
Jesus Is Accused by Teachers of the Law
If there is no one to explain, the person speaking should keep quiet in the church. They can speak to themselves and to God.
Then I will be sad about many who sinned earlier and have not turned away from it. They have not turned away from uncleanness, sexual sins and wild living. They have done all those things.
After this the Lord appointed  others. He sent them out two by two ahead of him. They went to every town and place where he was about to go.
John himself was not the light He came only as a witness to the light
Dear children, don’t just talk about love.
Those children have bodies made out of flesh and blood So Jesus became human like them in order to die for them
So Jesus made a whip out of ropes He chased all the sheep and cattle from the temple courtyard
She shouted Blessed is the mother who gave you birth and nursed you
Then I saw three evil spirits that looked like frogs. They came out of the mouths of the dragon, the beast and the false prophet.
It came from Abraham.
So here is what I ask. Did God turn his back on his people? Not at all! I myself belong to Israel. I am one of Abraham’s children. I am from the tribe of Benjamin.
The living creatures give glory, honor and thanks to the one who sits on the throne. He lives for ever and ever.
Glory belongs to him both now and forever Amen
After he said this he spit on the ground He made some mud with the spit
Do not be afraid I am the First and the Last
What Im about to tell you is true Jesus replied Has anyone left home or family or fields for me and the good news
But test all prophecies Hold on to what is good
He appeared to Peter. Then he appeared to the  apostles.
In any case I havent caused you any expense
The grass dries up.
I say this to shame you
The great day of their anger has come
The Sadducees do not believe that people rise from the dead Some of them came to Jesus with a question
MARK
We ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
He is a guest in the home of another Simon, who works with leather. He lives by the sea.’
If the building burns up the builder will lose everything
All who depend on obeying the law are under a curse.
How old is this zoo
But here is the one thing I do
Suppose someone claims to be in the light but hates a brother or sister. Then they are still in the darkness.
Here are the words of Jesus
He saw heaven open up. There he saw something that looked like a large sheet. It was being let down to earth by its four corners.
Then a man named Jairus came He was a synagogue leader When he saw Jesus he fell at his feet
We have already given written directions to the believers who are not Jews. They must not eat food that has been offered to statues of gods. They must not drink blood. They must not eat the meat of animals that have been choked to death. And they must not commit sexual sins.”
This kind of person cant make up their mind They can never decide what to do
You got drunk.
Wear sandals. But do not take extra clothes.
He remains a priest forever In this way he is like the Son of God
Abraham believed God
It is more than you can handle right now
But each persons work will be shown for what it is On judgment day it will be brought to light It will be put through fire The fire will test how good each persons work is
Those who are dead are raised to life.
Methuselah was the son of Enoch
He was bewildered, because some were saying that John the Baptist had been raised from the dead.
What Im about to tell you is true Heaven and earth will disappear before the smallest letter disappears from the Law Not even the smallest mark of a pen will disappear from the Law until everything is completed
Jesus was going up to Jerusalem On the way he took his  disciples to one side to talk to them
Jesus was getting into the boat The man who had been controlled by demons begged to go with him
So we can know the God who is true.
The next day Jesus and those who were with him came down from the mountain
But you are a mere human being So who are you to talk back to God Scripture says Can what is made say to the one who made it Why did you make me like this
But you wont always have me
They came to him and said, “Teacher, we know that you are a man of honor.
They are full of every kind of sin, evil and ungodliness. They want more than they need. They commit murder. They want what belongs to other people. They fight and cheat. They hate others. They say mean things about other people.
he got into a boat with his disciples. He went to the area of Dalmanutha.
The Seventh Seal and the Gold Cup
The Holy Spirit is given to each of us in a special way. That is for the good of all.
When Paul arrived the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him They brought many strong charges against him But they couldnt prove that these charges were true
Jesus replied You are mistaken because you do not know the Scriptures And you do not know the power of God
Jesus finished saying all these things. Then he said to his disciples,
The person who builds a house has greater honor than the house itself In the same way Jesus has been found worthy of greater honor than Moses
The emperor sends them to punish those who do wrong. He also sends them to praise those who do right.
So heres my advice Buy from me gold made pure by fire Then you will become rich
you have already been warned about this. So be on your guard. Then you won’t be led astray by people who don’t obey the law. Instead, you will remain safe.
Suppose the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in other languages. And suppose visitors or unbelievers come in. Won’t they say you are out of your minds?
He grabbed the dragon that old serpent
Their shame rises up like foam. They are like falling stars.
The one who looks at me sees the one who sent me
You yourselves are our letter You are written on our hearts Everyone knows you and reads you
“Why do you ask me about what is good?” Jesus replied. “There is only one who is good. If you want to enter the kingdom, obey the commandments.”
Jorim was the son of Matthat
I disagree with you
People came running from all directions
Those Israelites who were chosen did receive it.
You were chosen to do good even if you suffer Thats because Christ suffered for you He left you an example that he expects you to follow
When the Sabbath day came he began to teach in the synagogue Many who heard him were amazed
Don’t give up when times are hard.
We have nothing but we own everything
As Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew. He was sitting at the tax collector’s booth. “Follow me,” Jesus told him. Matthew got up and followed him.
Where is the teacher of the law?
“So be sure of this, all you people of Israel. You nailed Jesus to the cross. But God has made him both Lord and Messiah.”
And there is only one go-between for God and human beings
I want you to understand. It will keep you from being proud.
Dont you have homes to eat and drink in You are shaming those in the church who have nothing
“But then that servant went out and found one of the other servants who owed him one hundred silver coins. He grabbed him and began to choke him. ‘Pay back what you owe me!’ he said.
The chief priests and the teachers of the law heard about this They began looking for a way to kill Jesus They were afraid of him because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching
Like a good soldier of Christ Jesus, join with me in suffering.
After all, no one ever hated their own body.
I don't want to swim.
But you are looking for a way to kill me I am a man who has told you the truth I heard from God
An Appeal and Warning to Remain Faithful
Moses parents had faith So they hid him for three months after he was born
Besides we have all had human fathers who trained us
Think about how kind God is! Also think about how firm he is! He was hard on those who stopped following him. But he is kind to you. So you must continue to live in his kindness. If you don’t, you also will be cut off.
I am suffering for it I have even been put in chains like someone who has committed a crime But Gods word is not held back by chains
I work in a factory
But the dragon wasn’t strong enough.
But after I rise from the dead I will go ahead of you into Galilee
It was so bad that the boat was about to sink. They were in great danger.
They all drank the same spiritual water. They drank from the spiritual rock that went with them. That rock was Christ.
Jesus answered What Im about to tell you is true
Be happy with your pay
People like that are false apostles They are workers who tell lies They only pretend to be apostles of Christ
But I know that even now God will give you anything you ask for.”
They listen but they dont really hear or understand
The message they heard didn’t have any value for them. That’s because they didn’t share the faith of those who obeyed.
If it does, we ask you not to become easily upset or alarmed.
And here is what God has promised us He has promised us eternal life
But a Samaritan came to the place where the man was. When he saw the man, he felt sorry for him.
Wasn’t it with those who sinned? They died in the desert.
The church in Jerusalem heard about this. So they sent Barnabas to Antioch.
In a large house there are things made out of gold and silver
The Holy Spirit and the bride say,
The sight was terrifying Moses said I am trembling with fear
The brightness of the light had blinded me. So my companions led me by the hand into Damascus.
On the third day there was a wedding It took place at Cana in Galilee
The works that I do in my Father’s name are a witness for me.
When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord suddenly took Philip away.
Then why was there still a need for another priest to come And why did he need to be like Melchizedek Why wasnt he from Aarons family line
They will fool others, and others will fool them.
Bragging About Tomorrow
“What do you think about this? A man had two sons. He went to the first and said, ‘Son, go and work today in the vineyard.’
He is my brother in the Lord
Who can know the thoughts of another person
And forgive us our sins,
Shortly before dawn, Jesus went out to the disciples. He walked on the lake.
There is only one Lawgiver and Judge.
But now look! I am alive for ever and ever!
He suffered death By the grace of God he tasted death for everyone
Salvation
The God who saves will come from Mount Zion
As it is, I am no longer the one who does these things. It is sin living in me that does them.
Get rid of the old yeast Then you can be like a new batch of dough without yeast That is what you really are
Others replied, “No. He fools the people.”
Only Luke is with me Get Mark and bring him with you He helps me in my work for the Lord
Jesus was approaching Jericho A blind man was sitting by the side of the road begging
“I will use people who are not a nation to make you jealous.
“Now here is my decision. We should not make it hard for the Gentiles who are turning to God.
The children of your sister who is chosen by God send their greetings
But I have a baptism of suffering to go through. And I must go through it.
You made them a little lower than the angels.
As soon as Judas had taken the bread, he went out. And it was night.
He helps us control ourselves.
In a loud voice he spoke to the crowd My fellow Jews he said let me explain this to you All of you who live in Jerusalem listen carefully to what I say
The disciples did not understand any of this. Its meaning was hidden from them. So they didn’t know what Jesus was talking about.
Then you will be blessed. YOur guests can’t pay you back. But you will be paid back when those who are right with God rise from the dead.”
The chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there With loud shouts they brought charges against him
What if it says that the day of the Lord has already come
Paul stood up in front of them. “Men,” he said,
But the way to do what God requires must begin by having faith in him. Scripture says, “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will go up into heaven?’ ” That means to go up into heaven and bring Christ down.
Anyone who believes and is baptized will be saved But anyone who does not believe will be punished
Or she can go back to her husband
He corrects everyone he accepts as his son.”
You will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a manger
Jesus answered, “Don’t you know me, Philip? I have been among you such a long time! Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. So how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?
They are also seven kings. Five have fallen, one is ruling, and the other has still not come. When he does come, he must remain for only a little while.
Right away, blood and water flowed out.
Stephen Speaks to the Sanhedrin
That rock was Christ
Mr Aqenau Wolde is a resident of the city of Tsitsqa።
But when I preach the good news I cant brag
And what is Paul?
What benefit did you gain from doing the things you are now ashamed of
or harm
After they had made fun of him, they took off the purple robe. They put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him out to nail him to a cross.
ACTS
They were delighted and agreed to give him money
He told people all over town how much Jesus had done for him
John was also baptizing. He was at Aenon near Salim, where there was plenty of water.
They crossed over the lake and landed at Gennesaret.
Jesus answered her, “You do not know what God’s gift is. And you do not know who is asking you for a drink. If you did, you would have asked him. He would have given you living water.”
But as they go on their way
But if she does, she must not get married again.
I will explain to you the mystery of the woman. And I will explain the mystery of the beast she rides on. The beast is the one who has the seven heads and ten horns.
No he answered
Peter was still thinking about the vision. The Holy Spirit spoke to him. “Simon,” he said, “three men are looking for you.
Finally two other witnesses came forward
Children, obey your parents as believers in the Lord.
Every house is built by someone.
And to kindness for one another add love
They will not say to one another Know the Lord
The living Father sent me,
The woman you saw stands for the great city of Babylon.
Jacob had tewelve sons. They became the founders of the tewelve tribes of Israel.
But test all prophecies
At that moment, one of Jesus’ companions reached for his sword. He pulled it out and struck the slave of the high priest with it. He cut off the slave’s ear.
The sky rolled back like a scroll. Every mountain and island was moved out of its place.
Peter motioned with his hand for them to be quiet. He explained how the Lord had brought him out of prison.
Jews require signs. Greeks look for wisdom.
They replied, “Let one of us sit at your right hand in your glorious kingdom. Let the other one sit at your left hand.”
He replied Go and tell that fox I will keep on driving out demons I will keep on healing people today and tomorrow And on the third day I will reach my goal
Are you going to raise it up in three days
You are controlled by demons the crowd answered
From there we continued on to Patara
God wants the spirit in us to belong only to him God caused this spirit to live in us
All the believers including their whole families went with us out of the city There on the beach we got down on our knees to pray
This good news of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world. It will be a witness to all nations. Then the end will come.
They did what he said
Jesus followers saw what was going to happen So they said Lord should we use our swords against them
All those things bring praise to his glorious grace God freely gave us his grace because of the One he loves
Suppose you call yourself a Jew. You trust in the law. You brag that you know God.
All the birds stuffed themselves with the dead bodies.
And so is the Holy Spirit. God has given the Spirit to those who obey him.”
When the disciples heard this they were really amazed They asked Then who can be saved
It is not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven
For example by law a married woman remains married as long as her husband lives But suppose her husband dies Then the law that joins her to him no longer applies
The Lord trains the one he loves
Give to the one who asks you for something Dont turn away from the one who wants to borrow something from youLove Your Enemies
They are the angels of the seven churches.
In that way they will pay back their parents and grandparents That pleases God
They surrounded the living creatures and the elders.
But I tell you, open your eyes! Look at the fields! They are ripe for harvest right now.
They have known me for a long time. So if they wanted to, they could tell you how I have lived. I have lived by the rules of the Pharisees. Those rules are harder to obey than those of any other Jewish group.
He is the one you told us about
It is the same mighty strength God showed He showed this when he raised Christ from the dead God seated him at his right hand in his heavenly kingdom
they saw him walking on the lake They thought he was a ghost so they cried out
Follow the lead of every human authority. Do this for the Lord’s sake.
I'm a man
They are tripped up by wanting many foolish and harmful things.
We embrace him as our apostle and our high priest.
After this I looked and I saw the temple in heaven
The words “God accepted Abraham’s faith” were written not only for Abraham.
God said Let light shine out of darkness He made his light shine in our hearts His light gives us the light to know Gods glory His glory is shown in the face of Christ
There Is No Other Good News
I passed on to you what I received from the Lord. On the night the Lord Jesus was handed over to his enemies, he took bread.
A single woman or a virgin is concerned about the Lord’s matters.
An evil and unfaithful people look for a sign. But none will be given to them except the sign of Jonah.” Then Jesus left them and went away.
We dont want you to slow down Instead be like those who have faith and are patient They will receive what God promised
It is also shown in how you live.
Then they will feel guilty about their sin.
But rich people should take pride in their low positions
When he has brought out all his own sheep he goes on ahead of them
Moses was with the Israelites in the desert. He was with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai. Moses was with our people of long ago. He received living words to pass on to us.
So do what we tell you. There are four men with us who have made a promise to God.
They cried out in a loud voice
Look at what that godly sadness has produced in you. You are working hard to clear yourselves. You are angry and alarmed. You are longing to see me. You are concerned. You are ready to make sure that the right thing is done. In every way you have proved that you are not guilty in that matter.
The believers studied what the apostles taught They shared their lives together They ate and prayed together
So then, what about troublemakers who try to get others to be circumcised? I wish they would go the whole way! I wish they would cut off everything that marks them as men!
Suppose a master puts one of his slaves in charge of the other slaves in his house The slaves job is to give them their food at the right time The master wants a faithful and wise slave for this
I make my appeal to Caesar
All these things will happen when he comes On that day his glory will be seen in his holy people
Human anger doesn’t produce the holy life God wants.
They don’t have any barns at all.
You will receive a rich welcome into the kingdom that lasts forever.
With her teaching, she has led my servants into sexual sin. She has tricked them into eating food offered to statues of gods.
So let us get rid of the works of darkness that harm us Let us do the works of light that protect us
How did God answer him God said I have kept
He is not weak in dealing with you. He is powerful among you.
All of them paid close attention to what he said
You have given yourselves everything you wanted.
But just say the word, and my servant will be healed.
I think it is right for me to remind you It is right as long as I live in this tent Im talking about my body
He saw that the man had faith to be healed
May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord give you grace mercy and peace
It is no different for the Jews than for the Gentiles.
We are bewildered But that doesnt make us lose hope
Then everyone will know that these reports about you are not true in any way.
Again you have heard what was said to your people long ago They were told Do not break the promises you make to the Lord Keep your promises to the Lord that you have made
Instead they are bothering others
So the captain went with his officers and brought the apostles back
Have respect for God.
This means the message about faith that we are preaching.
Jesus was about thirty years old when he began his special work for God and others
We know he is our son the parents answered And we know he was born blind
But what does it say?
Don’t you have a saying? You say, ‘It’s still four months until harvest time.’
under your control
The law was given so that sin would increase
Martha answered I know he will rise again This will happen when people are raised from the dead on the last day
Jesus pointed to his disciples. He said, “Here is my mother! Here are my brothers!
The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman. She had been caught committing adultery. They made her stand in front of the group.
The man of sin will show his power through all kinds of signs and wonders.
There should not be even a hint of sexual sin among you Dont do anything impure And do not always want more and more
I’m saying those things for your own good. I’m not trying to hold you back.
But they didn’t find his body. So they came and told us what they had seen. They saw angels, who said Jesus was alive.
No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me brings them
It makes them go where the captain wants to go.
I pray that your love will grow more and more And let it be based on knowledge and understanding
Today I have become your Father
Just then Moses and Elijah appeared in front of them Moses and Elijah were talking with Jesus
Back off.
And you are proud Shouldnt you be very sad instead Shouldnt you have thrown out of your church the man doing this
God did not spare the world’s ungodly people long ago. He brought the flood on them.
Brothers and sisters, what I mean is that the time is short.
They all saw him and were terrified
They speak empty bragging words They make their appeal to the evil desires that come from sins power They tempt new believers who are just escaping from the company of sinful people
Holy holy holy is the Lord God who rules over all
What did he mean when he said You will look for me
Dogs bark
Then I said Here I am
Then the angel said to me
The power of sin used to control us. The law stirred up sinful desires in us. So the things we did resulted in death.
Instead, one of the soldiers stuck his spear into Jesus’ side. Right away, blood and water flowed out.
She shouted, “Blessed is the mother who gave you birth and nursed you.”
After this I saw four angels
I do live in the world But I dont fight my battles the way the people of the world do
Evil thoughts come from the inside from a persons heart So do sexual sins stealing and murder
We are fools for Christ. But you are so wise in Christ! We are weak. But you are so strong! You are honored. But we are looked down on!
Blessed are those who make peace
The founders of our nation belong to them
It is written,
the teachers of the law met in Jerusalem.
All of them ate and were satisfied
Then you will remain joined to the Son and to the Father
Think about the people of Israel
Even the message God spoke through angels had to be obeyed
The blind man said, “Rabbi, I want to be able to see.”
What I’m about to tell you is true. A slave is not more important than his master. And a messenger is not more important than the one who sends him.
Jesus ate nothing during that time
But when you ask you must believe You must not doubt Thats because a person who doubts is like a wave of the sea The wind blows and tosses them around
We were not expecting people to praise us We were not looking for praise from you or anyone else Yet as Christs apostles we could have used our authority over you
Copy their faith
They have told the church about your love
Levi was the son of Melki
Then Jesus said to them, “Don’t be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. There they will see me.”
We know that we have come to know God if we obey his commands
But I heard a voice from heaven say Seal up what the seven thunders have said Do not write it down
Iconium
But now here are the kinds of things you must also get rid of You must get rid of anger rage hate and lies Let no dirty words come out of your mouths
Instead, your beauty comes from inside you. It is the beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. Beauty like this doesn’t fade away. God places great value on it.
Doesn’t Scripture say that the Messiah will come from the family line of David?
A door has opened wide for me to do some good work here. There are many people who oppose me.
That is what we speak about. We don’t use words taught to us by people. We use words taught to us by the Holy Spirit. We use the words taught by the Spirit to explain spiritual truths.
“Then he said, ‘This is what I’ll do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones. I will store my extra grain in them.
Everything they had seen and heard was just as they had been told
My brothers and sisters can a fig tree produce olives Can a grapevine produce figs Of course not And a saltwater spring cant produce fresh water either
People will love them.
Beginning with Samuel all the prophets spoke about this They said these days would come
We didnt give in to them for a moment
One day Jesus was praying in a certain place
She saw that the stone had been moved away from the entrance.
The man had an important position in charge of all the wealth of the Kandake.
But those who marry someone will have many troubles in this life
You are worth more than many sparrows
Not too far away he saw a fig tree It was covered with leaves He went to find out if it had any fruit When he reached it he found nothing but leaves It was not the season for figs
I will ask the Father.
Because you are human you find this hard to understand
dont be surprised by the terrible things happening to you
How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree?
Everyone has sinned No one measures up to Gods glory
It is true that I worship the God of our people. I am a follower of the Way of Jesus. Those bringing charges against me call it a cult.
But they couldnt find any way to do it All the people were paying close attention to his words
You give God a tenth of your garden plants, such as mint and rue
But there were also false prophets among the people. In the same way there will be false teachers among you.
She wants to serve the Lord with both body and spirit
He's always smiling.
What dies must be dressed with what does not die.
So Paul asked, “Then what baptism did you receive?”
He answered, “The one who planted the good seed is the Son of Man.
The flowers fall to the ground
So he had to be made like people fully human in every way Then he could serve God as a kind and faithful high priest And then he could pay for the sins of the people by dying for them
Neither of them had the money to pay him back
As long as we are at home in our bodies, we are away from the Lord.
At sunrise he arrived again in the temple courtyard
When the members of the Sanhedrin heard this, they became very angry.
They will say This person started to build but wasnt able to finish
Night and day we pray very hard that we will see you again. We want to give you what is missing in your faith.
So suppose what I eat causes my brother or sister to fall into sin Then what should I do I will never eat meat again In that way I will not cause them to fall
Worship in a Way That Helps People Understand
This is the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God.
Here are some commandments to think about
The angel said Come I will show you the bride the wife of the Lamb
He is the God who made the world He also made everything in it He is the Lord of heaven and earth
So teach what is true
Then he said to those standing by Take his money away from him Give it to the one who has ten times as much
Who were those who heard and refused to obey? Weren’t they all the people Moses led out of Egypt?
That is why it is said,
Arent rich people taking advantage of you
Simeon took Jesus in his arms
But here is what you must understand
I do not mean that Gods word has failed
May more and more mercy, peace and love be given to you.
I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison to test you.
Or suppose you receive a different message of good news.
Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love me.
Many people came to him They said John never performed a sign
At one time we too acted like fools. We didn’t obey God. We were tricked. We were controlled by all kinds of desires and pleasures. We were full of evil. We wanted what belongs to others. People hated us, and we hated one another.
I do not pray only for them I pray also for everyone who will believe in me because of their message
Hes bound to forget
You know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power.
How much did you bid
Outside are also those who commit sexual sins and murder.
The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses seat he said
They dont accept the truth They go astray God will pour out his great anger on them
Then how were your eyes opened they asked
We accept what people say when they are witnesses But its more important when God is a witness Thats because it is what God says about his Son
He said this to show them how he was going to die
The jailer was commanded to guard them carefully
Then he said Here I am I have come to do what you want
And death came because of sin
Dont fight with each other or be jealous of anyone
They knew this because he kept gesturing to them.
Lord who will not have respect for you
They will see the smoke rising as Babylon burns.
There were seven brothers. The first one married a woman. He died without leaving any children.
Paul shook the snake off into the fire. He was not harmed.
There are different kinds of gifts. But they are all given to believers by the same Spirit.
He spoke very loudly
Our father Jacob gave us the well. He drank from it himself. So did his sons and his livestock. Are you more important than he is?”
Now I want to talk about some other matters, brothers and sisters. We taught you how to live in a way that pleases God.
Our good news didn’t come to you only in words.
How terrible it will be for me if I do not preach the good news
But food doesn’t bring us close to God.
He does not sin
Jesus went across the Sea of Galilee in a boat. It landed at the other side. There a large crowd gathered around him.
Seth was the son of Adam.
He answered, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
Jesus’ mother said to him, “They have no more wine.”
So they motioned to their partners in the other boat to come and help them.
Then the master will cut him to pieces He will send him to the place where pretenders go There people will weep and grind their teeth
They also give thanks to God
you know that everyone who does what is right is God’s child.
Here is the main point of what we are saying We have a high priest like that He sat down at the right hand of the throne of the King the Majesty in heaven
They are the people who separate you from one another. They do only what comes naturally. They are not led by the Holy Spirit.
In the one case, the tenth is collected by people who die. But in the other case, it is collected by the one who is said to be living.
I will say it again
You have heard me teach in front of many witnesses. Pass on to people you can trust the things you’ve heard me say. Then they will be able to teach others also.
But then the worries of this life come to them. Wealth comes with its false promises. The people also long for other things. All of these are the kinds of things that crowd out the message. They keep it from producing fruit.
show yourself to the world.”
One day Peter and John were going up to the temple. It was three o’clock in the afternoon.
When I preached, I clearly showed you that Jesus Christ had been nailed to the cross.
When we were ready to sail they gave us the supplies we needed
Dear friends everything I do is to help you become stronger
Now there is a crown waiting for me
Don’t you know what Scripture says?
You also must be ready. The Son of Man will come at an hour when you don’t expect him.”
You were guilty of the murder of prophets and God’s holy people.
You have been set free from sin. God has made you his slaves. The benefit you gain leads to holy living. And the end result is eternal life.
But those who are taught the word should share all good things with their teacher
And he will give us anything we ask Thats because we obey his commands We do what pleases him
Hold fire
Do what you have learned or received or heard from me. Follow my example. The God who gives peace will be with you.
Those who have victory will receive all this from me
The mystery has now been made known through the writings of the prophets. The eternal God commanded that it be made known. God wanted all the Gentiles to obey him by trusting in him.
that person is a stranger to me.
Our father Jacob gave us the well He drank from it himself
Then I saw a second beast.
And,“The one who is right with God will live by faith.
I have given you authority to walk all over snakes and scorpions
Jesus answered If I tell you you will not believe me
Do you believe Moses? Then you should believe me.
I am not lying. The God and Father of the Lord Jesus know this. May God be praised forever?
Which good work are you throwing stones at me for
Eat anything sold in the meat market. Don’t ask if it’s right or wrong.
Jesus replied How terrible for you authorities on the law
But God was not pleased with most of them Their bodies were scattered in the desert
Paul went into the synagogue as he usually did
They must not talk back to them
A door has opened wide for me to do some good work here There are many people who oppose me
I have brought you glory on earth. I have finished the work you gave me to do.
I will put your enemies
As a result of this hearing, I will have something to write.
In those days John the Baptist came and preached in the Desert of Judea
Jesus placed his hands on them to bless them. Then he went on from there.
It is completely destroyed.”
Then each of them was given a white robe. “Wait a little longer,” they were told. “There are still more of your believing brothers and sisters who will be killed. They will be killed just as you were.”
Besides a wide space has been placed between us and you So those who want to go from here to you cant go And no one can cross over from there to us
Make sure that no one pays back one wrong act with another. Instead, always try to do what is good for each other and for everyone else.
Finally the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees. They asked the guards, “Why didn’t you bring him in?”
But God made a promise to him and to all his family after him
He cried out at the top of his voice.
Every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices. So this priest also had to have something to offer.
If I said I did not,
Suddenly a terrible storm came up on the lake. The waves crashed over the boat. But Jesus was sleeping.
God has not put angels in charge of the world that is going to come We are talking about that world
He said, “Throw your net on the right side of the boat. There you will find some fish.” When they did, they could not pull the net into the boat. There were too many fish in it.
Her name in the Greek language is Dorcas
Suddenly a sound came from heaven It was like a strong wind blowing It filled the whole house where they were sitting
Joseph and Mary did everything the Law of the Lord required.
They cant prove to you any of the charges they are making against me
They prayed that daylight would come
May peace and mercy be given to all who follow this rule. May peace and mercy be given to the Israel that belongs to God?
They came down the mountain On the way down Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone what they had seen He told them to wait until the Son of Man had risen from the dead
as the glory and wealth she gave herself
They cant agree about what words mean
They said, “Isn’t this Jesus, the son of Joseph?
Let we not become tired of doing well.
Instead, we want to be fully dressed with our house in heaven. What must die will be swallowed up by life?
free or slave had to receive the mark.
Gods plan will be carried out This will happen when the seventh angel is ready to blow his trumpet God told all this to the prophets who served him long ago
“Hosanna in the highest heaven!”
It is time for judgment to begin with the household of God. And since it begins with us, what will happen to people who don’t obey God’s good news?
In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, get up and walk.”
That time is going to come to the whole world It will test those who live on the earth
They could not buy or sell anything unless they had the mark. The mark is the name of the beast or the number of its name.
Peter was still thinking about the vision The Holy Spirit spoke to him Simon he said three men are looking for you
He ordered the commander to keep Paul under guard. He told him to give Paul some freedom.
Do you think so little of God’s church that you do this?
With our tongues we praise our Lord and Father. With our tongues we curse people. We do it even though people have been created to be like God.
I have told you these things many times before. Now I tell you again with tears in my eyes. Many people live like enemies of the cross of Christ.
But God had mercy on him He also had mercy on me God spared me sadness after sadness
Only a person’s own spirit can know them.
That joy is mine, and it is now complete.
And command them not to spend their time on stories that are made up. They must not waste time on family histories that never end. These things only lead to fights about ideas. They don’t help God’s work move forward. His work is done by faith.
We share very much in the sufferings of Christ. So we also share very much in his comfort.
Do all explain what is said in those languages
If you are looking for me then let these men go
“You didn’t want sacrifices and offerings.
Then the disciple Jesus loved said to Simon Peter, “It is the Lord!” As soon as Peter heard that, he put his coat on. He had taken it off earlier. Then he jumped into the water.
Some of you dont know anything about God
The leaders ordered them not to speak in Jesus’ name. Then they let the apostles go.
But Jesus said to them, “I have shown you many good works from the Father.
Whoever is not with me is against me
First, Moses says,
The youth game is split into two groups with the traditional referee-led system consisting of the results of a win and loss።
“Where is your faith?” he asked his disciples.
The chief priests brought many charges against him
He himself suffered when he was tempted. Now he is able to help others who are being tempted.
The rough ways will become smooth
Then all people will honor the Son just as they honor the Father
Then he divides up what he has stolen
So then he told them plainly, “Lazarus is dead.
So that day should not surprise you as a thief would.
All of them ate and were satisfied. The disciples picked up  baskets of leftover pieces.
The Jewish Leaders Do Not Believe
This is the revelation from Jesus Christ.
When all of them had enough to eat, Jesus spoke to his disciples. “Gather the leftover pieces,” he said. “Don’t waste anything.”
In the same way, help the young men to control themselves.
Forgive me for that wrong!
Then Jesus said to him Dont tell anyone Go and show yourself to the priest and offer the gift Moses commanded It will be a witness to everyone
But it was even surer that God’s grace would also come through one man. That man is Jesus Christ. God’s gift of grace was more than enough for the whole world.
They put the sponge on the stem of a hyssop plant Then they lifted it up to Jesus lips
In front of him was a man whose body was badly swollen
Every living thing in the sea died.
There is no male or female.
Lord she replied even the dogs under the table eat the childrens crumbs
So who can brag?
Then the man of sin will appear. The Lord Jesus will overthrow him with the breath of his mouth. The glorious brightness of Jesus’ coming will destroy the man of sin.
It will become sour in your stomach
People will love them. They will love money. They will brag and be proud. They will tear others down. They will not obey their parents. They won’t be thankful or holy.
‘And you can be just as sure that everyone will kneel down in front of me.
Brothers and sisters, we have a duty. Our duty is not to live under the power of sin.
They told the soldiers, “We want you to say, ‘His disciples came during the night. They stole his body while we were sleeping.’
But Jesus told him Follow me Let the dead bury their own dead
But you teach the way of God truthfully.
Sing to God with thanks in your hearts
I will reward each person for what they have done
When Jesus came ashore, he saw a large crowd. He felt deep concern for them. He healed their sick people.
Jesus said to them, “What I’m about to tell you is true. Tax collectors and prostitutes will enter the kingdom of God ahead of you.
He ordered the commander to keep Paul under guard He told him to give Paul some freedom
Not even the highest places or the lowest, or anything else in all creation can separate us. Nothing at all can ever separate us from God’s love. That’s because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done.
I Paul am writing this letter I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God planned Our brother Timothy joins me in writing
Even Jesus own brothers did not believe in him
Instead the Spirit gives us power and love
Then they asked him, “What does God want from us? What works does he want us to do?”
The commander told him he could. So Paul stood on the steps and motioned to the crowd. When all of them were quiet, he spoke to them in the Aramaic language.
To enter university, Blom wanted to become a scholar, but he was so annoyed that he could not succeed until now ።
God is fair. He will not forget what you have done.
The elders will not accept him
But suppose the servant says to himself, ‘My master is taking a long time to come back.’ Suppose that servant begins to beat the other servants, both men and women. Suppose he feeds himself. And suppose he drinks until he gets drunk.
Thats true
Hi! Do you work here?
In the same way the rebels who were being crucified with Jesus also made fun of him
“Abraham replied, ‘They have the teachings of Moses and the Prophets. Let your brothers listen to them.’
When Jesus and those who were with him came to the other disciples they saw a large crowd around them The teachers of the law were arguing with them
They speak empty, bragging words. They make their appeal to the evil desires that come from sin’s power. They tempt new believers who are just escaping from the company of sinful people.
But I might stay with you for a while I might even spend the winter
He brings charges against them in front of our God day and night
Then I saw something that looked like a sea of glass glowing with fire.
He came to Simon Peter Lord Peter said to him is you going to wash my feet
They believed that you sent me.
is not telling the truth.
We try.
Love holds them all together perfectly as if they were one
But now I will show you the best way of all.
Put up with one another Forgive one another if you are holding something against someone Forgive just as the Lord forgave you
In the same way the women must be worthy of respect They must not say things that harm others In anything they do they must not go too far They must be worthy of trust in everything
His sheep follow him because they know his voice.
But here is what I tell you Do not make any promises like that at all Do not make them in the name of heaven That is Gods throne
And it is for anything else that is the opposite of true teaching
Then Jesus gave them an example
Jesus arrived at the other side of the lake in the area of the Gadarenes. Two men controlled by demons met him. They came from the tombs. The men were so wild that no one could pass that way.
Trust in your leaders. Put yourselves under their authority.
You are a building that is built on the apostles and prophets. They are the foundation. Christ Jesus himself is the most important stone in the building.
Those who are happy should live as if they were not
“ ‘No,’ the owner answered. ‘While you are pulling up the weeds, you might pull up the wheat with them.
The next day the rulers the elders and
Are you engaged to a woman Then dont try to get out of it
“Then I don’t find you guilty either,” Jesus said. “Go now and leave your life of sin.”
Jesus saw that a crowd was running over to see what was happening. Then he ordered the evil spirit to leave the boy. “You spirit that makes him unable to hear and speak!” he said. “I command you, come out of him. Never enter him again.”
Each person was judged by what they had done
If they obeyed my teaching, they will obey yours also.
And they will give glory to God on the day he comes to judge
So the men lifted the lifeboat on board Then they tied ropes under the ship itself to hold it together
“Suppose someone wants to love life
They must not give anyone a reason to say that they are wild and don’t obey.
He tries
Mary reached the place where Jesus was When she saw him she fell at his feet She said Lord
We pray that he will make perfect all that you have done by faith.
‘You are a priest forever.’ ”
Who are the engineer Kitaw Ejigu?
They were standing around the elders and the four living creatures
Run away from the evil things that young people long for
Long ago it was written that they would be judged.
Paul Says Goodbye to the Ephesian Elders
So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat. They let it drift away.
And we can hardly wait for a Savior from there He is the Lord Jesus Christ
In the Law of the Lord it says,
He saw a tax collector sitting at the tax booth The mans name was Levi
Jesus answered them Didnt God say in your Law
Say only what will help to build others up and meet their needs. Then what you say will help those who listen.
Then you will be able to see clearly to take the bit of sawdust out of your friends eye
We dont want others to have it easy at your expense We want things to be equal
Jesus said My kingdom is not from this world
“Is that your own idea?” Jesus asked. “Or did others talk to you about me?”
The trouble you are having has come to test you. So don’t feel as if something strange were happening to you.
We have been told this message at just the right time.
You yourselves have not entered
who teach will be held more accountable
Thats the reason I sent someone to find out about your faith I couldnt wait any longer I was afraid that Satan had tempted you in some way Then our work among you would have been useless
Brothers and sisters I want you to know that I planned many times to visit you But until now I have been kept from coming My work has produced results among the other Gentiles
Perhaps they blame me for what I said when I was on trial. I shouted, ‘I believe that people will rise from the dead.
Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister
he is the head of the body which is the church He is the beginning
When Jesus finished saying these things, he left Galilee. He went into the area of Judea on the other side of the Jordan River.
And this is the word that was preached to you
It must remain joined to the vine In the same way you cant bear fruit unless you remain joined to me
We are witnesses about him.
If Satan fights against himself, how can his kingdom stand? I say this because of what you claim. You say I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebul.
Just then a woman came up behind Jesus. She had a sickness that made her bleed. It had lasted for  years. She touched the edge of his clothes.
“ ‘How terrible! How terrible it is for you, great city,
By turning this problem into an advantage both the public and the government must take legal action against merchants who raise prices።
Then he put the mud on the mans eyes
As Jesus was saying these things, a woman in the crowd called out. She shouted, “Blessed is the mother who gave you birth and nursed you.”
A husband also must love his wife. He must love her just as he loves himself. And a wife must respect her husband.
May grace is given to everyone who loves our Lord Jesus Christ with a love that will never die.
Why arent my words clear to you
Am I not free?
He replied The vultures will gather where there is a dead body
Do you think I came to bring peace on earth? No, I tell you. I have come to separate people.
So here’s my advice. Buy from me gold made pure by fire. Then you will become rich.
Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news She said I have seen the Lord
everyone who loves the Father loves his children as well.
Remain Strong in the Lord
There were people who were not killed by these plagues. But they still didn’t turn away from what they had been doing.
Pray that we can live peaceful and quiet lives. And pray that we will be godly and holy.
Do not be like them Your Father knows what you need even before you ask him
His brother Philip was the ruler ofIturea and Traconitis
The next day he and Barnabas left for Derbe
Work because you know that you will finally receive as a reward what the Lord wants you to have.
Jason has welcomed them into his house. They are all disobeying Caesar’s commands. They say there is another king. He is called Jesus.”
God has formed us for that very purpose.
It is written that Abraham had two sons. The slave woman gave birth to one of them. The free woman gave birth to the other one.
So some men came carrying a man who could not walk. He was lying on a mat. They tried to take him into the house to place him in front of Jesus.
None of the people will escape
I have made myself a slave to everyone
Do everything God has given you to do
They are the people of Israel.
You must call him Jesus.
Some seed fell on rocky places, where there wasn’t much soil. The plants came up quickly, because the soil wasn’t deep.
This happened three times Right away the sheet was taken back up to heaven
Jesus replied If I bring glory to myself my glory means nothing
Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
no ear has heard
If so, he could brag about it. But he couldn’t brag to God.
Some were killed with stones
Some people do not know God’s law when they sin. They will not be judged by the law when they die. Others do know God’s law when they sin. They will be judged by the law.
They must not eat the meat of animals that have been choked to death.
When Elizabeth heard Marys greeting the baby inside her jumped
An evil man says evil things. These come from the evil that is stored up in his heart.
I am the least important of the apostles Im not even fit to be called an apostle I tried to destroy Gods church
He is the greatest King of allHe is the most powerful Lord of all
When Peter came into the house, Jesus spoke first. “What do you think, Simon?” he asked. “Who do the kings of the earth collect taxes and fees from? Do they collect them from their own children or from others?”
Grab this
But keep away from foolish disagreements.
to announce the good news to poor people.
I am a man
The Son Is Greater Than the Angels
That’s because of the kind of people we all were.
We are bewildered. But that doesn’t make us lose hope.
I will pay you back for any extra expense you may have
Suppose one of you wants to build a tower Wont you sit down first and figure out how much it will cost Then you will see whether you have enough money to finish it
He helps us control ourselves
Bless those who call down curses on you. And pray for those who treat you badly.
By turning this problem into an advantage, both the public and the government must take legal action against merchants who raise prices።
He replied, “The man they call Jesus made some mud and put it on my eyes. He told me to go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed. Then I could see.”
But Gods word is not held back by chains
I like movies a lot
Brothers and sisters, think of what you were when God chose you.
You showed it when you helped his people.
Their bodies will lie in the main street of the great city It is also the city where their Lord was nailed to a cross The city is sometimes compared to Sodom or Egypt
Before I knew about the law, I was alive.
Do not be afraid when you hear about wars and about fighting against rulers Those things must happen first But the end will not come right away
Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard. It was an expensive perfume.
So get rid of every kind of evil,
Suppose a woman is a believer and takes care of widows. She should continue to help them. She shouldn’t let the church pay the expenses. Then the church can help the widows who really need it.
That is where Jesus has gone. He went there to open the way ahead of us. He has become a high priest forever, just like Melchizedek.
“Do not think I will bring charges against you in front of the Father. Moses is the one who does that. And he is the one you build your hopes on.
Thats how everything was arranged in the holy tent The priests entered it at regular times They went into the outer room to do their work for God and others
They heard them speaking in languages they had not known before. They also heard them praising God.
In Scripture God says to Pharaoh I had a special reason for making you king
That the law is sinful?
“All you Gentiles, praise the Lord.
We have to stop this thing. It must not spread any further among the people. We have to warn these men. They must never speak to anyone in Jesus’ name again.”
He asked them, “Who do the crowds say I am?”
In those days, I will pour out my Spirit on my servants.
Anyone who believes in him will not die but will have eternal life
Humor me.
You have heard that the great enemy of Christ is coming.
After that I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel He is the one who had been showing me these things
Their stomach is their god
It is the same with your Father in heaven. He does not want any of these little ones to die.
He is the God who is able to save life or destroy it
And as he was praying heaven was opened
Do to others as you want them to do to you.
Dont think you can say to yourselves Abraham is our father I tell you God can raise up children for Abraham even from these stones
Here is what the angel told me to write Blessed are those invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb Then he added These are the true words of God
What more can I say?
He said The Holy Spirit says This is how the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem will tie up the owner of this belt They will hand him over to the Gentiles
Then Paul went upstairs again He broke bread and ate with them
Jesus answered them, “Didn’t God say in your Law, ‘I have said you are “gods” ’?
I like playing sports.
Every mountain and hill will be made level
Heaven must receive him until the time when God makes everything new. He promised this long ago through his holy prophets.
The disciples became sad. One by one they said to him, “Surely you don’t mean me?”
Watch and pray Then you wont fall into sin when you are tempted The spirit is willing but the body is weak
Heres how we know that we hold to the truth And heres how we put our hearts at rest knowing that God is watching
I pray that he will use his glorious riches to make you strong May his Holy Spirit give you his power deep down inside you
Circumcision has value if you obey the law. But if you break the law, it is just as if you hadn’t been circumcised.
Father, I pray they will be one, just as you are in me and I am in you. I want them also to be in us.
Noah was the son of Lamech
Let us act as we should like people living in the daytime
Love your enemies
I did not know him.
A man named Cornelius lived in Caesarea
Scripture also says They will look to the one they have pierced
Get Mark and bring him with you. He helps me in my work for the Lord.
I’m making my appeal to you as one who is an elder together with you.
Suppose they don’t forget what they’ve heard, but they do what the law says. Then this person will be blessed in what they do.
What kind of body will they have
So if the Son of Man sets you free you will really be free
They shut the mouths of lions
John wore clothes made out of camels hair He had a leather belt around his waist And he ate locusts and wild honey
They answered as Jesus had told them to. So the people let them go.
When the people heard this; it had a deep effect on them. They said to Peter and the other apostles, “Brothers, what should we do?”
Remove from your life all evil desires.
We pray that he will make you worthy of his choice We pray he will make every good thing you want to do come true
So the law is holy
you dont receive it Thats because you ask for the wrong reason You want to spend your money on your sinful pleasures
Then the father realized what had happened. That was the exact time Jesus had said to him, “Your son will live.” So he and his whole family became believers.
No You will go down to the place of the dead
Though you are only a human being you judge others But you yourself do the same things
The Pharisees saw this So they asked the disciples Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners
By doing good you will put a stop to the talk of foolish people. They don’t know what they are saying.
When the commandment gave sin the opportunity sin tricked me
Next were Philip and Bartholomew,and also Thomas and Matthew the tax collector.Two more were James, son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus.
This is the first and most important commandment
All those who lift themselves up will be made humble And those who make themselves humble will be lifted up
Have nothing to do with the acts of darkness. They don’t produce anything good. Show what they are really like.
Instead, they argued with him about their own beliefs. They didn’t agree about a man named Jesus. They said Jesus was dead, but Paul claimed Jesus was alive.
The Lord will carry out his sentence
But even now many enemies of Christ have already come
Instead you yourselves cheat and do wrong
Then the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’
The high priest and the whole Council can be witnesses of this themselves. I even had some official letters they had written to their friends in Damascus. So I went there to bring these people as prisoners to Jerusalem to be punished.
Then Peter spoke up We have left everything to follow you
If I send them away hungry, they will become too weak on their way home. Some of them have come from far away.”
Then Peter and John placed their hands on them. And they received the Holy Spirit.
He will not argue or cry out
The dragon’s tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky. It threw the stars down to earth. The dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to have a baby. The dragon wanted to eat her child the moment he was born.
They came back from the tomb They told all these things to the  apostles and to all the others
You will go hungry.
I wrote a letter to you to tell you to stay away from people who commit sexual sins
It will be good for the slave if the master finds him doing his job when the master returns.
We didn’t eat anyone’s food without paying for it. In fact, it was just the opposite. We worked night and day. We worked very hard so that we wouldn’t cause any expense to any of you.
Instead you should say
But here is something I hold against you
I agreed that they should die
What to Do About False Teachers
They are already harvesting the crop for eternal life
But they have fallen away from the faith. So it won’t be possible to bring them back. They won’t be able to turn away from their sins. They are losing everything. That’s because they are nailing the Son of God to the cross all over again. They are bringing shame on him in front of everyone.
All the trees that don’t produce good fruit will be cut down. They will be thrown into the fire.”
It is better to get married than to burn with desire
He says
This happened on a Sabbath day
And in some ways I believe it
Twelve angels were at the gates one at each of them
“Let all God’s angels worship him.”
Paul and those traveling with him passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia They came to Thessalonica A Jewish synagogue was there
He prayed to God regularly
If your right eye causes you to sin, poke it out and throw it away. Your eye is only one part of your body. It is better to lose an eye than for your whole body to be thrown into hell.
The second was made out of sapphire.
Christ has paid the price for you
Erastus is the director of public works here in the city.
But do not be glad when the evil spirits obey you Instead be glad that your names are written in heaven
They are like wild animals who can’t think.
Those who get drunk get drunk at night.
We are bringing you good news. Turn away from these worthless things. Turn to the living God.
he who is coming will come.
But I heard a voice from heaven say, “Seal up what the seven thunders have said. Do not write it down.”
He shouted to all the birds flying high in the air
But no one can tame the tongue
In the same way, when you see these things happening, you will know that God’s kingdom is near.
Will women be saved by having children? Only if they keep on believing, loving, and leading a holy life in a proper way.
When Jesus said this all those who oppose him were put to shame But the people were delighted They loved all the wonderful things he was doing
Mary answered
Instead you prepared a body for me
All of this results in wanting what others have.
By these signs the second beast tricked those who live on the earth
Jesus Appears to the Disciples
Everyone has heard that you obey God
It is written, “God catches wise people in their own evil plans.”
Warning Against the Teachers of the Law
So I am a slave to the law of sin.
Barabbas they answered
So suppose someone knows the good deeds they should do.
And there is no sin in him
One day Jesus was teaching. Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there. They had come from every village of Galilee and from Judea and Jerusalem. They heard that the Lord had given Jesus the power to heal the sick.
He gave them eyes that could not see
He said to me, “It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give water to anyone who is thirsty. The water will come from the spring of the water of life. It doesn’t cost anything!
The sight was terrifying.
These teachers are never satisfied. They want to get something out of you.
Right away the disease left the man and he was clean
What if he put up with them to show the riches of his glory to other people
And we have entered into new life We know this because we love one another
They claim to know God
One day an authority on the law stood up to test Jesus. “Teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to receive eternal life?”
He said to them, “Go to the village ahead of you. Just as you enter it, you will find a donkey’s colt tied there. No one has ever ridden it. Untie it and bring it here.
He is now even more committed because he has great faith in you
Young Iyasu W/Slas is a resident of the city of Tsitsqa።
Remember that while our Lord is waiting patiently to return, people are being saved.
“No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me brings them.
The one who plants and the one who waters have the same purpose. The Lord will give each of them a reward for their work.
The one who plants only a little will gather only a little And the one who plants a lot will gather a lot
All the people were amazed
The other servant fell on his knees Give me time he begged him Ill pay it back
But this is about your own law It is a question of words and names
God trains all his children But what if he doesnt train you Then you are not really his children You are not Gods true sons and daughters at all
When you hope, be joyful.
If the time had not been cut short no one would live But because of Gods chosen people it will be shortened
When Jesus arrived, he found out that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days.
My blood is real drink
So he went to the synagogue
When the leaders heard this they became very angry
What does that matter to you?”
Jesus Is Tempted in the Desert
Then Jesus disciples said Now you are speaking plainly You are using examples that are clear
There were about twelve men in all.
It was already evening so they put them in prison until the next day
David saw what was coming. So he spoke about the Messiah rising from the dead.
He gave all these people so that they might prepare Gods people to serve Then the body of Christ will be built up
And what he says doesnt amount to anything
John is a witness to everything he saw. What he saw is God’s word and what Jesus Christ has said.
But you have disrespected poor people
His way is new because he lives. It has been opened for us through the curtain. I’m talking about his body.
Blessed is the person who keeps on going when times are hard After they have come through hard times this person will receive a crown The crown is life itself The Lord has promised it to those who love him
I’m happy because your sadness led you to turn away from your sins.
Don’t let any evil talk come out of your mouths. Say only what will help to build others up and meet their needs. Then what you say will help those who listen.
But Rabbi they said a short time ago the Jews there tried to kill you with stones
So we must pay the most careful attention to what we have heard.
You will receive a rich welcome into the kingdom that lasts forever
he had said. ‘But you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’
I have five brothers Let Lazarus warn them Then they will not come to this place of terrible suffering
It said Look God now makes his home with the people
All who are forced to serve as slaves should consider their masters worthy of full respect Then people will not speak evil things against Gods name and against what we teach
God said,
There the chief priests and the Jewish leaders came to Festus. They brought their charges against Paul.
They killed the prophets
Jesus was teaching in the temple courtyard. He asked, “Why do the teachers of the law say that the Messiah is the son of David?
So give a strong warning to people who refuse to obey God.
Why do you fight and argue among yourselves Isnt it because of your sinful desires They fight within you
Dear friends we have to say these things But we are sure of better things in your case We are talking about the things that have to do with being saved
Why question me? Ask the people who heard me. They certainly know what I said.”
The treats everyone the same.
But Paul and Barnabas found out about the plan They escaped to the Lycaonian cities of Lystra and Derbe and to the surrounding area
Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give You shouldnt give if you dont want to
But God’s word continued to spread and many people believed the message.
until I put your enemies
We passed the calmer side of a small island called Cauda. We almost lost the lifeboat that was tied to the side of the ship.
And he is the head of the body, which is the church. He is the beginning. He is the first to be raised from the dead. That happened so that he would be far above everything.
They replied, “Are you from Galilee too? Look into it.
Is anyone among you sick? Then that person should send for the elders of the church to pray over them.
He escaped from the sea But the female god Justice wont let him live
After Jesus said this; he was taken up to heaven.
But they found it by having faith
What I wrote to you I wrote for a special reason. When I came, I didn’t want to be troubled by those who should make me glad.
no matter what language they speak.
Jesus said Then I wont tell you by what authority I am doing these things either
The result of sin’s control in our lives is clear. It includes sexual sins, impure acts and wild living.
But I still had no peace of mind. I couldn’t find my brother Titus there. So I said goodbye to the believers at Troas and went on to Macedonia.
As his children we will receive all that he has for us
God raised up Jesus, who serves him. God sent him first to you. He did it to bless you. He wanted to turn each of you from your evil ways.”
It was almost time for the Jewish Passover Feast So Jesus went up to Jerusalem
That means Paul or Apollos or Peter or the world or life or death or the present or the future All are yours
They drove out many demons They poured olive oil on many sick people and healed them
He overpowered them all
They want to sleep with them They never stop sinning
After that, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel. He is the one who had been showing me these things.
Meanwhile a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there, so they came. But they did not come only because of Jesus. They also came to see Lazarus. After all, Jesus had raised him from the dead.
And when sin is allowed to remain and grow, it leads to death.
I do not fear death
That is why I was angry with them
He was bewildered because some were saying that John the Baptist had been raised from the dead
Here is what he has given you to do for Christ. You must not only believe in him. You must also suffer for him.
So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath day
So I am sending you prophets, wise people, and teachers. You will kill some of them. You will nail some to a cross. Others you will whip in your synagogues. You will chase them from town to town.
And you will know God’s great power. It can’t be compared with anything else. His power works for us who believe.
From Attalia they sailed back to Antioch.
But here is the order of events
One like this hasn’t happened while human beings have lived on earth.
We want them to be grown up as people who belong to Christ.
If that is true, what about the one the Father set apart as his very own? What about this one the Father sent into the world? Why do you charge me with saying a very evil thing? Is it because I said, ‘I am God’s Son’?
Jesus had often met in that place with his disciples
While he was speaking, a cloud appeared and covered them. The disciples were afraid as they entered the cloud.
You preach against stealing. But you steal!
That’s because “people are slaves to anything that controls them.”
They went off by themselves to a town called Bethsaida.
Then Jesus said to them, “The Sabbath day was made for man. Man was not made for the Sabbath day.
Then the high priest stood up He asked Jesus Arent you going to answer What are these charges that these men are bringing against you
But there is a judge for anyone who does not accept me and my words. These words I have spoken will judge them on the last day.
Those bringing charges against him got up to speak But they didnt charge him with any of the crimes I had expected
We also have a great priest over the house of God
And whoever doesnt eat meat does so to honor the Lord
He came.
The sound of a millstone
It is given to those who are right with God. The Lord, who judges fairly, will give it to me on the day he returns.
They knew this because he kept gesturing to them
“I am he,” Jesus said. Judas, who was going to hand Jesus over, was standing there with them.
Jesus Chooses His First Disciples
He scattered the coins of the people exchanging money
Challenge to the Claim to Be Children of Abraham
But suppose even we should preach a different good news Suppose even an angel from heaven should preach it Suppose it is different from the good news we gave you Then let anyone who does that be cursed by God
What made you think of doing such a thing You havent lied just to people Youve also lied to God
Dear children, don’t let anyone lead you astray. The person who does what is right is holy, just as Christ is holy.
So remember what you have been taught and have heard. Hold firmly to it. Turn away from your sins. If you don’t wake up, I will come like a thief. You won’t know when I will come to you.
Then came the Feast of Hanukkah at Jerusalem.
Keep on doing these things. Give them your complete attention.
mighty city of Babylon
If Christ lives in you, you will live. Though your body will die because of sin, the Spirit gives you life.
God has commanded us to believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ.
The words we speak to those who have grown in the faith are wise.
He acted as my guide.
They asked her, “Woman, why are you crying?”
Paul Sends Titus to Corinth to Receive the Offering
Jesus said to the woman Your faith has saved you
In the same way, Jesus was faithful to the God who appointed him.
But whoever does not accept me does not accept the one who sent me
Whoever tries to keep their life will lose it. Whoever loses their life will keep it.
Philip Goes to Samaria
If you forgive anyones sins their sins are forgiven
They had to wait until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed
Treat older women as if they were your mothers Treat younger women as if they were your sisters Be completely pure in the way you treat them
But I havent used any of those rights
But they had no children, because Elizabeth was not able to have any. And they were both very old.
There the Holy Spirit showed me a woman sitting on a bright red beast.It was covered with names that say evil things about God. It had seven heads and ten horns.
Then Jesus turned to his disciples. He said to them in private, “Blessed are the eyes that see what you see.
Now we really live because you are standing firm in the Lord
Suddenly a terrible storm came up on the lake The waves crashed over the boat But Jesus was sleeping
It is easier for heaven and earth to disappear than for the smallest part of a letter to drop out of the Law.
Priscilla and Aquila Teach Apollos
God didn’t give him any property here. He didn’t even give him enough land to set his foot on.
suffering for everyone who does evil. That is meant first for the Jews. It is also meant for the Gentiles.
Suppose I do drive out demons with Beelzebul’s help. With whose help do your followers drive them out?
Tell James and the other brothers and sisters about this he said Then he went to another place
Then he will be ashamed of that person
But there will be glory, honor and peace for everyone who does good. That is meant first for the Jews. It is also meant for the Gentiles.
It is for liars.
Honor them as those who will share with you the gracious gift of life
Then all the churches will know that I search hearts and minds
What Im about to tell you is true he continued
It is time for the Lambs wedding
If you don’t, you have believed it for nothing.
Then Jesus ordered his disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Messiah
They called out to the mountains and rocks,
Terror struck those who saw them
He tried to feel his way around He wanted to find someone to lead him by the hand
Whose Son Is the Messiah?
At once Jesus knew that power had gone out from him He turned around in the crowd He asked Who touched my clothes
What should we say then? Since God is on our side, who can be against us?
Did what is good cause me to die?
But Paul spoke to the commander and the soldiers. “These men must stay with the ship,” he said. “If they don’t, you can’t be saved.”
Isaiah cries out concerning Israel He says
Trust me.
A third of the living creatures in the sea died
“On one of these journeys I was on my way to Damascus. I had the authority and commission of the chief priests.
Anyone who walks during the day won’t trip and fall. They can see because of this world’s light.
Jesus said Then I wont tell you by what authority I am doing these things either
Those people are trying hard to win you over But it is not for your good They want to take you away from us They want you to commit yourselves to them
“His master replied, ‘You have done well, good and faithful slave! You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master’s happiness!’
You are slaves of the Lord Christ
They measure themselves by themselves. They compare themselves with themselves. When they do that, they are not wise.
I pray that everything else may go well with you.
Everyone is going to him
Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring
Let us hold firmly to the hope we claim to have The God who promised is faithful
In Greek it is Apollyon His name means Destroyer
The apostles and elders met to consider this question.
Please help them by sending them on their way in a manner that honors God.
The demons begged Jesus, “If you drive us out, send us into the herd of pigs.”
“This is the same Moses who spoke to the Israelites. ‘God will send you a prophet,’ he said. ‘He will be like me. He will come from your own people.’
Did I fight wild animals in Ephesus with nothing more than human hopes Then what have I gotten for it
Never give up
They brought the coin He asked them Whose picture is this And whose words
Before that, he was useless to you.
“They have taken the Lord out of the tomb!
Then he spoke to them. “Anyone who welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me,
The appeal we make is based on truth. It comes from a pure heart. We are not trying to trick you.
that has come to you. In the same way, the good news is bearing fruit. It is bearing fruit and growing all over the world. It has been doing that among you since the day you heard it. That is when you really understood God’s grace.
The unbelieving husband has been made holy through his wife. The unbelieving wife has been made holy through her believing husband. If that were not the case, your children would not be pure and “clean.” But as it is, they are holy.
He wrote one letter.
The horses and riders I saw in my vision had armor on their chests
The Spirit understands all things He understands even the deep things of God
The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world
I have given them your word.
That city rules over the kings of the earth
All they need is for you to bring Paul to the Sanhedrin
He did not say anything to them without using a story But when he was alone with his disciples he explained everything
In Antioch they had been put in Gods care to preach the good news They had now completed the work God had given them to do
The people took the young man home
He hadn’t continued with them in their work.
Mr Chomau Mengstu is a government employee and his monthly salary is oe thoused eight hudred
I forget what is behind me. I push hard toward what is ahead of me.
Does Christ take sides
Jesus said These people from Galilee suffered greatly Do you think they were worse sinners than all the other Galileans
According to the information we received from Somaliland it is expected that the top leaders of Somaliland and the region will hold a discussion on trade and security issues around the border of Somaliland
They will be changed as a person changes clothes
The disciple was leaning back against Jesus. He asked him, “Lord, who it is?”
We would like to know what they mean
The women joined them too So did Jesus mother Mary and his brothers
Again here is what the kingdom of heaven will be like A man was going on a journey He sent for his slaves and put them in charge of his money
But Saul began to destroy the church. He went from house to house. He dragged away men and women and put them in prison.
For three Sabbath days in a row he talked with the Jews about the Scriptures.
The sting of death is sin.
To those who are dying we are the smell of death To those who are being saved we are the perfume of life
The soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus Then they broke the legs of the other man
Jesus had healed many people. So those who were sick were pushing forward to touch him.
They were things that no one is allowed to talk about
Dont fill yourself up with wine Getting drunk will lead to wild living Instead be filled with the Holy Spirit
But the apostles did not believe the women. Their words didn’t make any sense to them.
An authority on the law spoke to Jesus
Dont argue about family histories
Suppose someone doesn’t know how to manage his own family. Then how can he take care of God’s church?
He said to Jesus, “I will give you all their authority and glory. It has been given to me, and I can give it to anyone I want to.
Gods People Enter His Sabbath Rest
Brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the hard times we had in Asia Minor.
They had heard that he was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John
“Lord,” she replied, “even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”
They have taken the Lord out of the tomb
The twelfth was made out of amethyst
Then I heard the noise of a huge crowd
People shouted at him and made fun of him But he didnt do the same thing back to them When he suffered he didnt say he would make them suffer Instead he trusted in the God who judges fairly
We are dressed in rags
Jesus Gives Peter His Task
Epaphras sends greetings. He is one of you. He serves Christ Jesus. He is always praying hard for you.
That is why many of you are weak and sick. That is why a number of you have died.
and dont speak against one another
“Since he was a child,” he answered.
After he had said this Jesus spirit was troubled He said What Im about to tell you is true
I myself am a man who is under authority. And I have soldiers who obey my orders.
Do it now.
When Jesus and those who were with him came to the other disciples, they saw a large crowd around them. The teachers of the law were arguing with them.
She must be well known for the good things she does.
Suppose someone wants to love life
Little Children Are Brought to Jesus
He came to be a witness about that light He was a witness so that all people might believe
What I say to you, I say to everyone. ‘Watch!’ ”
If not it will return to you
So they went and saw where he was staying
Jesus had not yet joined them
The soldiers put a purple robe on Jesus Then they twisted thorns together to make a crown They placed it on his head
You saw the waters the prostitute sits on he said
When these things begin to take place stand up Hold your head up with joy and hope The time when you will be set free will be very close
The Lamb went and took the scroll He took it from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne
If the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised either.
The man lived in the tombs No one could keep him tied up anymore Not even a chain could hold him
Follow him
Those in front and those in back shouted
And when sin is allowed to remain and grow it leads to death
He is coming with Onesimus, our faithful and dear brother. He is one of you.
That kingdom will never end.”
Dont fight about what the law teaches
People walked on it, and the birds ate it up.
just as Christ is holy
Jesus performed many other signs in front of his disciples. They are not written down in this book.
Then he went a short distance away from them There he got down on his knees and prayed
Lord Jesus receive my spirit he said
Then Jesus asked them What does the Law say we should do on the Sabbath day Should we do good Or should we do evil Should we save life Or should we kill But no one answered
“My friends, listen to me.
He appeared to them over a period of fourty days. During that time he spoke about God’s kingdom.
“What about someone who says in front of others that he knows me? I tell you, the Son of Man will say in front of God’s angels that he knows that person.
Jesus Prays for Himself
A third angel followed them He said in a loud voice
Jesus Speaks a Third Time About His Coming Death
Those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest. The teachers of the law and the elders had come together there.
The one in authority serves God for your good. But if you do wrong, watch out! Rulers don’t carry a sword for no reason at all. They serve God. And God is carrying out his anger through them. The ruler punishes anyone who does wrong.
Blessed are those whose hearts are pure
you do not accept me.
loving, and
I have been telling them that since last year you who live in Achaia were ready to give
Come, Lord!
I knew you'd find Abrham .
Jesus said, “Young man, I say to you, get up!”
And if you did receive it, why do you brag as though you did not?
In front of him was a man whose body was badly swollen.
His disciples were saying to him, “Rabbi, eat something!”
But suppose people have something that might be used to help their parents You allow them to say it is instead a gift set apart for God
They are true. The Lord is the God who gives messages to the prophets.
Jesus noticed how the guests picked the places of honor at the table So he told them a story
After his suffering and death he appeared to them
Correct an older man in a way that shows respect. Make an appeal to him as if he were your father. Treat younger men as if they were your brothers.
I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews. He teaches us that God is true. He shows us that God will keep the promises he made to the founders of our nation.
No they replied There may not be enough for all of us Instead go to those who sell oil Buy some for yourselves
I will use a nation that has no understanding to make you angry
You should have practiced the last things without failing to do the first
But Peter said he had not been with him. “Woman, I don’t know him,” he said.
His words won over some of the Jews. They joined Paul and Silas.
It promises better things than the blood of Abel
He had great authority His glory filled the earth with light
The Soldiers Make Fun of Jesus
Nothing God created is hidden from him
The men of Nineveh will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And the Ninevites will prove that those people are guilty. The men of Nineveh turned away from their sins when Jonah preached to them. And now something more important than Jonah is here.
Jesus turned and looked at his disciples He scolded Peter
He wants us to be holy.
After this, Jesus left the house.
So they took away the stone. Then Jesus looked up. He said, “Father, I thank you for hearing me.
At other times their thoughts find them not guilty
When he arrived, he found some believers there.
Several days later Felix came with his wife Drusilla She was a Jew
When he went up to his place on high
Keep warm.
He accepted the fact that he was past the time when he could have children At that time Abraham was about one hundred years old
All who follow wisdom prove that wisdom is right.”A Sinful Woman Pours Perfume on Jesus
When the demon was driven out, the man spoke. The crowd was amazed. They said, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel.”
This went on for two years
You will see heaven open. You will see the angels of God going up and coming down on the Son of Man.”
But he said no.
Right away Jesus said to them Be brave It is I Dont be afraid
“But we don’t want to make them angry. So go to the lake and throw out your fishing line. Take the first fish you catch. Open its mouth. There you will find the exact coin you need. Take it and give it to them for my tax and yours.”
They do it for only one reason. They don’t want to suffer by being connected with the cross of Christ.
Keep far away from sexual sins All the other sins a person commits are outside the body But sexual sins are sins against their own body
Look! He is coming with the clouds!
“I will not remember their sins anymore.I will not remember the evil things they have done.”
Then he said to them My soul is very sad I feel close to death Stay here Keep watch with me
So whoever opposes the authorities opposes leaders whom God has appointed.
Throw that worthless slave outside. There in the darkness, people will weep and grind their teeth.’
I was ill yesterday
And the earth was harvested.
Titus didnt take advantage of you did he
About five thousend men were there.
But Judas was one of us He shared with us in our work for God
Then the sheet was pulled up into heaven.
Smyrna,
A crowd was sitting around Jesus. They told him, “Your mother and your brothers are outside. They are looking for you.”
Everyone was amazed
We speak the truth. We serve in the power of God. We hold the weapons of godliness in the right hand and in the left.
This is why we work and try so hard Its because we have put our hope in the living God
Peter said, “Here is what is written in the Book of Psalms. It says,
But my life might even be poured out like a drink offering on your sacrifices. I’m talking about the way you serve because you believe. Even so, I am glad. I am joyful with all of you.
They didnt think it was important to know God
So they do not need to honor their father or mother with their gift. You make the word of God useless in order to follow your own teachings.
There he lived in a town called Nazareth. So what the prophets had said about Jesus came true. They had said that he would be called a Nazarene.
That word contains the mystery that has been hidden for many ages But now it has been made known to the Lords people
“How long, Lord and King, holy and true?” they asked.
Now you know these things. So you will be blessed if you do them.
or harm
But I haven’t used any of those rights.
You think you know so much more than the people you teach You think youre helping blind people You think you are a light for those in the dark
Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven. He was wearing a cloud like a robe.
You have never seen what he really looks like
Don’t you know that your bodies belong to the body of Christ?
Jesus answered them, “Haven’t you ever read about what David did?
Woman came from man and man is born from woman But everything comes from God
Then he told me,
Follow the way of love. You should also want the gifts the Holy Spirit gives. Most of all, you should want the gift of prophecy.
He will announce that he himself is God.
Jesus answered him, “Simon, I have something to tell you.”
So I can speak openly to him.
There were many lamps in the room upstairs where we were meeting
If you are willing to accept it John is the Elijah who was supposed to come
It is clear that our Lord came from the family line of Judah Moses said nothing about priests who were from the tribe of Judah
Did Paul die on the cross for you?
The two are at war with each other. That’s why you are not supposed to do whatever you want.
He appeared to them over a period of fourty days During that time he spoke about Gods kingdom
Its truth was shown in how Jesus lived.
Salvation also belongs to the Lamb
Then Jesus said to them, “Suppose you have a friend. You go to him at midnight and say,
Now I trust God to take care of you I commit you to the message about his grace It can build you up Then you will share in what God plans to give all his people
So in those days there will be terrible suffering After that Scripture says
Be quiet said Jesus firmly Come out of him
You will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
So there were no needy persons among them From time to time those who owned land or houses sold them They brought the money from the sales
This is the way you planned it
The Lord trains the one he loves.
Judas was one of the tewelve  disciples. But later he was going to hand Jesus over to his enemies.
They speak empty bragging words They make their appeal to the evil desires that come from sins power
The high priest tore his clothes Why do we need any more witnesses he asked
I believe everything that is in keeping with the Law I believe everything that is in keeping with what is written in the Prophets
Everything they had seen and heard was just as they had been told.
This will happen if you dont believe that I am he If you dont believe you will certainly die in your sins
The angel said, “Get up! Take the child and his mother. Go to the land of Israel. The people who were trying to kill the child are dead.”
These blessings will be with us because we love the truth
Then they can provide for people when they are in great need
Stephen Is Killed
Christ has paid the price for you Dont become slaves of human beings
Put on the helmet of salvation.
I will raise them up on the last day.
He said, “I am not.”
He also gives them everything else they have
Out of the temple came a loud voice from the throne.
Everyone who asks will receive. The one who searches will find. The door will be opened to the one who knocks.
That’s an example for the present time. It shows us that the gifts and sacrifices people offered were not enough. They were not able to remove the worshiper’s feelings of guilt.
The one who was healed had no idea who it was.
Jesus Comes to Jerusalem as King
“How many loaves do you have?” Jesus asked.
Will this challenge, millionaire Liang's Universality, be the last measure they have come in?
But we know that when Christ appears, we will be like him.
Finally brothers and sisters be joyful Work to make things right with one another Help one another and agree with one another Live in peace And the God who gives love and peace will be with you
Then Jesus said to them, “Suppose you have a friend. You go to him at midnight and say, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread.
Should we save life?
Pray for us too Pray that God will give us an opportunity to preach our message Then we can preach the mystery of Christ Because I preached it I am being held by chains
Suppose someone adds anything to them.
I took Titus along also.
Then Judas spoke. “Lord,” he said,
Suppose Joshua had given them rest. If he had, God would not have spoken later about another day.
One day Zechariah’s group was on duty. He was serving as a priest in God’s temple.
Give him thanks and
You also say If anyone makes a promise in the name of the altar it means nothing But anyone who makes a promise in the name of the gift on the altar must keep that promise
If anyone tries to harm them fire comes from their mouths and eats up their enemies
Who can bring any charge against Gods chosen ones
They didnt thank him
The heavenly bodies will be shaken.’
He would not allow them to speak, because they knew he was the Messiah.
I dont make my plans the way the world makes theirs In the same breath the world says both Yes Yes and No No
Later Jesus found him at the temple. Jesus said to him, “See, you are well again. Stop sinning or something worse may happen to you.”
More than that, we would be lying about God. We are witnesses that God raised Christ from the dead.
He has done mighty things with his powerful arm
or war?
Sir the man replied leave it alone for one more year Ill dig around it and feed it
But when they walk at night, they’ll trip and fall. They have no light.”
In the same way, consider you to be dead as far as sin is concerned. Now you believe in Christ Jesus. So consider yourselves to be alive as far as God is concerned.
He has saved us from our enemiesWe are rescued from all who hate us
So he had to be made like people, fully human in every way. Then he could serve God as a kind and faithful high priest. And then he could pay for the sins of the people by dying for them.
They are true The Lord is the God who gives messages to the prophets
“ ‘Holy, holy, holy
Is anyone among you in trouble Then that person should pray Is anyone among you happy Then that person should sing songs of praise
If God permits we will go beyond those teachings and grow up
Who are you to judge someone else’s servant?
Scripture also says, “They will look to the one they have pierced.”
The person in charge tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He didn’t realize where it had come from. But the servants who had brought the water knew. Then the person in charge called the groom to one side.
You say, “I am rich. I’ve become wealthy and don’t need anything.” But you don’t realize how pitiful and miserable you have become. You are poor, blind and naked.
Do not make them in the name of the earth. That is the stool for God’s feet. Do not make them in the name of Jerusalem. That is the city of the Great King.
Our Lord Jesus is the great Shepherd of the sheep
On another Sabbath day Jesus went into the synagogue and was teaching
Even Satan himself pretends to be an angel of light.
To the Jews I became like a Jew That was to win the Jews
The law was given so that sin would increase. But where sin increased, God’s grace increased even more.
Receive her in the way Gods people should
As a result they are being exposed to hunger and pain during todays time
But God gives the seed a body just as he has planned.
God has saved us
Jesus Comforts the Sisters of Lazarus
A woman giving birth to a baby has pain. That’s because her time to give birth has come.
Anyone who doesn’t love still lives in their old condition.
What Im about to tell you is true On judgment day it will be easier for Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town
A large crowd met Jesus
I dont get the joke
The foolish things of God are wiser than human wisdom The weakness of God is stronger than human strength
John replied, “Don’t force people to give you money.
But the Pharisees and their teachers of the law complained to Jesus disciples
Then some boats arrived from Tiberias. It was near the place where the people had eaten the bread after the Lord gave thanks.
Jesus answered, “If you want to be perfect, go and sell everything you have. Give the money to those who are poor. You will have treasure in heaven. Then come and follow me.”
But here is what happens when people listen to my words and do not obey them. They are like a man who builds a house on soft ground instead of solid rock. The moment the river rushes against that house, it falls down. It is completely destroyed.”
They said to each other He explained to us what the Scriptures meant Werent we excited as he talked with us on the road
Live with the highest respect for God.
Now we serve in the new way of the Holy Spirit. We no longer serve in the old way of the written law.
He was raised from the dead. Now our lives can be useful to God.
The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were staring at him
He will not put out a dimly burning flame.
I was in the city of Joppa praying he said There I had a vision I saw something that looked like a large sheet
None of the rulers of this world understood Gods wisdom If they had they would not have nailed the Lord of glory to the cross
We want each of you to be faithful to the very end If you are then what you hope for will fully happen
The person in charge tasted the water that had been turned into wine He didnt realize where it had come from
What he says is true He doesnt lie
Brothers and sisters I no longer preach that people must be circumcised If I did why am I still being opposed If I preached that then the cross wouldnt upset anyone
Seven trumpets were given to them.
Since this is true, aren’t you able to judge small cases?
Scripture says Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved
I, Paul, am writing this letter. I am a prisoner because of Christ Jesus. Our brother Timothy joins me in writing.
I turned around to see who was speaking to me. When I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands.
In Galilee these women had followed Jesus. They had taken care of his needs. Many other women were also there. They had come up with him to Jerusalem.
The Son of the Most High God will rule forever over his people They are from the family line of Jacob
As Jesus looked up, he saw rich people putting their gifts into the temple offering boxes.
Melchizedek was the king of Salem
Here is your king Pilate said to the Jews
And the elders fell down and worshiped
Suppose someone says, “I know him.” But suppose this person does not do what God commands.
I am the Living One I was dead But now look I am alive for ever and ever And I hold the keys to Death and Hell
Dont cry
His master thought highly of him.
So the law was put in charge of us until Christ came. He came so that we might be made right with God by believing in Christ.
When daylight came; they saw a bay with a sandy beach.
He spent everything he had. Then the whole country ran low on food. So the son didn’t have what he needed.
But by leaving they showed that none of them belonged to us
I will not remain in the world any longer. But they are still in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them safe by the power of your name. It is the name you gave me. Keep them safe so they can be one, just as you and I are one.
Right away the believers sent Paul to the coast. But Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea.
There your people of long ago tested me.
God has made everything. He is now bringing his many sons and daughters to share in his glory. It is only right that Jesus is the one to lead them into their salvation. That’s because God made him perfect by his sufferings.
But they still didnt turn away from what they had been doing
“Fellow Israelites, you can be sure that King David died.
“The guards were standing at the doors.
I want to be joined to him. Being right with God does not come from my obeying the law. It comes because I believe in Christ. It comes from God because of faith.
I am praying for those you have given me because they are yours
God will accept them because of what Jesus Christ has done.
The soldiers brought them to the place called the Skull There they nailed Jesus to the cross He hung between the two criminals One was on his right and one was on his left
They do not understand They cant be trusted
Put up with one another
Some of the believers from Caesarea went with us. They brought us to Mnason’s home. We were supposed to stay there. Mnason was from Cyprus. He was one of the first believers.
He got up and ordered the wind and the huge waves to stop. The storm quieted down. It was completely calm.
Let the message about Christ live among you like a rich treasure Teach and correct one another wisely Teach one another by singing psalms and hymns and songs from the Spirit Sing to God with thanks in your hearts
At sunrise he arrived again in the temple courtyard. All the people gathered around him there. He sat down to teach them.
The prayer offered by those who have faith will make the sick person well The Lord will heal them If they have sinned they will be forgiven
A delegation headed by Somaliland President Moses Bihi Abdi entered Jigjiga
Be like servants waiting for their master to return from a wedding dinner. When he comes and knocks, they can open the door for him at once.
Then he taught them. He told them, “It is written that the Lord said, ‘My house will be called a house where people from all nations can pray.’  But you have made it a ‘den for robbers.’ ”
But Barnabas took him to the apostles. He told them about Saul’s journey.
Many who believed now came and openly admitted what they had done.
People who want to get rich are tempted
“Don’t you understand yet?” Jesus asked them.
Here are the words of Jesus who has the sharp sword with two edges He says
The disciple Jesus loved was next to him at the table.
From that time on Jesus began to preach Turn away from your sins he said The kingdom of heaven has come near
If you hear it dont be stubborn
Brothers and sisters, be patient until the Lord comes.
A third of all people were killed by the three plagues of fire,
Jesus took a little child and had the child stand among them. Then he took the child in his arms. He said to them,
“Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city.
Thats because those who have died have been set free from sin
Because of the crowd Jesus told his disciples to get a small boat ready for him This would keep the people from crowding him
Then came James, son of Zebedee, and his brother John.
She stood behind Jesus and cried at his feet And she began to wet his feet with her tears Then she wiped them with her hair
The kingdom of heaven is like yeast he said A woman mixed it into  pounds of flour The yeast worked its way all through the dough
No one can steal them out of my Fathers hand
The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were trying to find fault with Jesus. So they watched him closely. They wanted to see if he would heal on the Sabbath day.
Be kind.
Command and teach these things
The words I say to you I do not speak on my own authority.
Anyone who lives on milk is still a baby. That person does not want to learn about living a godly life.
Jesus told this story.
Then Jesus told him Because you have seen me you have believed
There was a woman in that town who had lived a sinful life. She learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee’s house.
Their dullness will be a witness against you.
“We found the jail locked up tight,” they said. “The guards were standing at the doors. But when we opened the doors, we didn’t find anyone inside.”
But the man who was treating the other one badly pushed Moses to one side
Im absolutely elated
We wipe from our feet even the dust of your town
because I am a prisoner most of the believers have become bolder in the Lord
But suppose you suffer for doing good, and you put up with it.
But others said, “A person controlled by a demon does not say things like this. Can a demon open the eyes of someone who is blind?”
They did it in keeping with the Law,
He is treating you as his children. What children are not trained by their parents?
This man deserves to have you do this
But its wrong to eat anything that might cause problems for someone elses faith
You will shine as you hold on tight to the word of life
The Apostles Are Treated Badly
From this time on many of his disciples turned back
I myself find no basis for a charge against him.”
They were as many as the stars in the sky. They were as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. No one could count them.
We know what it means to have respect for the Lord So we try to help other people to understand it What we are is plain to God I hope it is also plain to your way of thinking
The children of your sister, who is chosen by God, send their greetings.
The only thing that really counts is faith that shows itself through love.
So from that day on, the Jewish rulers planned to kill Jesus.
So don’t be afraid.
I needed clothes. And you gave them to me. I was sick. And you took care of me. I was in prison. And you came to visit me.’
Now may a way be opened up for us to come to you May our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus do this
“Your own people and chief priests handed you over to me. What have you done?”
You will roll them up like a robe
We are pushed hard from all sides. But we are not beaten down. We are bewildered. But that doesn’t make us lose hope.
Just then a man came up to Jesus He asked Teacher what good thing must I do to receive eternal life
The Pharisees heard that the Sadducees werent able to answer Jesus So the Pharisees got together
Now listen, you who say,
Also the Father does not judge anyone
Now the law lays down a rule for the sons of Levi who become priests. They must collect a tenth from the people.
I pray to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ God is the glorious Father I keep asking him to give you the wisdom and understanding that come from the Holy Spirit I want you to know God better
They sang the song of God’s servant Moses and of the Lamb. They sang,
Once the Pharisees asked Jesus when God’s kingdom would come. He replied, “The coming of God’s kingdom is not something you can see.
Believe in me also
That kingdom will never end
“That’s enough for now!” he said. “You may leave. When I find the time, I will send for you.”
The vultures will gather wherever there is a dead body.
The people read it They were glad for its message of hope
The covenant is not based on the written Law of Moses.
Do not gather for yourselves riches on earth Moths and rats can destroy them Thieves can break in and steal them
This will really happen! Amen.
There was a man sent from God His name was John
The rest were killed by the sword that came out of the riders mouth
“I will be your Father.
They said, “Moses allowed a man to write a letter of divorce and send her away.”
They found him on the other side of the lake. They asked him, “Rabbi, when did you get here?”
They will not come into the light They are afraid that what they do will be seen
The man got up and went home
But he said to me, “Don’t do that! I serve God, just as you do.
So when you come together, it is not the Lord’s Supper you eat.
It is enough for students to be like their teachers. And it is enough for slaves to be like their masters. If the head of the house has been called Beelzebul, what can the others who live there expect?
He told them everything that had happened Then he sent them to Joppa
So I stand here and tell you what is true I tell it to everyone both small and great
They will tell lies about people.
like loud thunder
Night and day the seed comes up and grows It happens whether the farmer sleeps or gets up He doesnt know how it happens
I can tell you for certain that they really want to serve God. But how they are trying to do it is not based on knowledge.
It says, “Abraham believed God.
Paul’s Reasons for Giving Instructions to Timothy
But now I am going to the one who sent me
Dont let any evil talk come out of your mouths Say only what will help to build others up and meet their needs Then what you say will help those who listen
It was filled with her terrible dirty sins
When the one thoused years are over, Satan will be set free from his prison.
I must help my mother.
All Israel Will Be Saved
Jesus got up and went with him. So did his disciples.
News about what Jesus had done spread all over that area.
Your great learning is driving you crazy
So he left them and went away once more. For the third time he prayed the same thing.
“‘May his home be deserted?
“And you have seen Abraham?”
And the elders fell down and worshiped.
When they came near the crowd a man approached Jesus He got on his knees in front of him
Didnt Moses give you the law But not one of you obeys the law
But you are looking for a way to kill me. I am a man who has told you the truth I heard from God.
He gave them a terrible beating.
Come and eat the dead bodies of kings generals and other mighty people Eat the bodies of horses and their riders Eat the bodies of all people free and slave great and small
But you know all about my teaching.
Look he said I see heaven open The Son of Man is standing at Gods right hand
But I won’t brag about myself. I will brag only about how weak I am.
He said to her, “Dear woman, your faith has healed you. Go in peace. You are free from your suffering.”
I am absolutely sure that nothing is unclean in itself The Lord Jesus has convinced me of this But someone may consider a thing to be unclean If they do it is unclean for them
The law you received was given by angels. But you haven’t obeyed it.”
And that’s not all.
Here is my command. Love one another.
But it had feet like a bear and a mouth like a lion
Then Jesus went back across the Jordan River He went to the place where John had been baptizing in the early days
He makes both us and you remain strong in the faith because we belong to Christ.
So it doesnt surprise us that Satans servants also pretend to be serving God They will finally get exactly what they deserve
And pray that we will be saved from sinful and evil people Not everyone is a believer
“No one ever spoke the way this man does,” the guards replied.
What if every one of them was written down?
He was sitting there.
your ways are true and fair.
My brothers and sisters
Make the most of every opportunity. The days are evil.
He is poor.
Those who live on the earth will be happy about this. That’s because those two prophets had made them suffer. The people will celebrate by sending one another gifts.
There were about  men in all.
We are talking about a priest who is from a different tribe No one from that tribe has ever served at the altar
Catch him
He said, “I will certainly bless you. I will give you many children.”
So why do you force Gentiles to follow Jewish ways?”
They ate meals together in their homes
His face was like the sun shining in all its brightness
Who can ever know what the Lord is thinking
If I preached that, then the cross wouldn’t upset anyone.
Wife how do you know if you will save your husband Husband how do you know if you will save your wife
He will be quick to carry it out on earth, once and for all.”
Anyone who does not love does not know God,
Meanwhile, he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast. Many people saw the signs he was doing. And they believed in his name.
The church is Christ’s body and is filled by Christ. He fills everything in every way.
Keep on remembering those in prison Do this as if you were together with them in prison
Abraham had faith So when God tested him Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice Abraham had held on tightly to the promises But he was about to offer his one and only son
Suppose love is fulfilled among us. Then we can be without fear on the day God judges the world. Love is fulfilled among us when in this world we are like Jesus.
Jesus called them together. He said, “You know about those who are rulers of the Gentiles. They hold power over their people. Their high officials order them around.
Then Jesus rolled up the scroll He gave it back to the attendant and sat down
Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses. In the same way, the teachers I’m talking about oppose the truth. Their minds are twisted. As far as the faith is concerned, God doesn’t accept them.
Meanwhile the high priest questioned Jesus He asked him about his disciples and his teaching
This man whom you see and know was made strong because of faith in Jesus name
We know that we have left our old dead way of life
Then they cried out, “Now we know you are controlled by a demon!
But everything he said about this man was true.”
Nevertheless, the Chinese millionaire and businessman Liang Shi, , did not give up ።
Don’t become slaves of human beings.
Jesus spoke to the crowd. He said, “You see a cloud rising in the west. Right away you say, ‘It’s going to rain.’ And it does.
But Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea
The parts that can be shown don’t need special care.
Greet all your leaders. Greet the entire Lord’s people.
But Jesus bent down and started to write on the ground with his finger.
I’m not writing to you because you don’t know the truth. I’m writing because you do know it. I’m writing to you because no lie comes from the truth.
I’m asking that we love one another.
Twenty-four elders were sitting on them.
It is true that they have seen the light They have tasted the heavenly gift
A man named Zacchaeus lived there. He was a chief tax collector and was very rich.
Then he carried me away in a vision The Spirit took me to a huge high mountain He showed me Jerusalem the Holy City It was coming down out of heaven from God
So Paul left the meeting of the Areopagus.
Then the Lord said to him Take off your sandals
You are observing special days and months and seasons and years!
He had great authority. His glory filled the earth with light.
The Father has life in himself He has allowed the Son also to have life in himself
Instead train yourself to be godly
And the earth produced its crops
So a third of each of them turned dark
But the Lord saved me from all my troubles
Every time you eat it, do it in memory of me.”
Try some.
He ran into the room.
Even while the boy was coming the demon threw him into a fit The boy fell to the ground
Be glad, all you who live there!
and go home. Then he will call his friends and neighbors together. He will say, ‘Be joyful with me. I have found my lost sheep.’
She asked Peter You arent one of Jesus disciples too are you
At that time Mary got ready and hurried to a town in Judea’s hill country.
So were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who worked with Simon.
We all fell to the ground I heard a voice speak to me in the Aramaic language Saul Saul it said Why are you opposing me
I believe that story.
When anyone lives in Christ, the new creation has come. The old is gone! The new is here!
Peter said to him, “We have left everything we had in order to follow you!”
Be kind and tender to one another Forgive one another just as God forgave you because of what Christ has done
No, new wine must be poured into new wineskins.
A slave is not more important than his master
Jesus and Beelzebul
Dear friends dont be surprised by the terrible things happening to you The trouble you are having has come to test you So dont feel as if something strange were happening to you
any powers can separate us.
He went to a village called Ephraim
From one man he made all the people of the world Now they live all over the earth He decided exactly when they should live
He said They will never enjoy the rest I planned for them
What if we keep sinning on purpose? What if we do it even after we know the truth? Then there is no offering for our sins.
“Master,” said John, “we saw someone driving out demons in your name.
I just cant solve it
Evil thoughts come out of a persons heart So do murder adultery and other sexual sins And so do stealing false witness and telling lies about others
It is true that Christ was nailed to the cross because he was weak. But Christ lives by God’s power. In the same way, we share his weakness. But by God’s power we will live with Christ as we serve you.
“Tell us by what authority you are doing these things,” they all said. “Who gave you this authority?”
David says
If you did you would have asked him He would have given you living water
Peter Says That Jesus Is the Messiah
He runs
Then we can be without fear on the day God judges the world. Love is fulfilled among us when in this world we are like Jesus.
Sir the disabled man replied I have no one to help me into the pool when an angel stirs up the water
Peter didnt really know what he was saying
Those are the things that make you unclean But eating without washing your hands does not make you unclean
“You are my Son.
A will is in effect only when somebody has died. It never takes effect while the one who made it is still living.
The good news was announced to our people of long ago It has also been preached to us
That means many people. It says, “And to your seed.”
I warn you now as I did before.
While he was going up they kept on looking at the sky Suddenly two men dressed in white clothing stood beside them
Thats because you are all one in Christ Jesus
Why isnt that good
And Isaiah says,
Brothers will hand over brothers to be killed Fathers will hand over their children Children will rise up against their parents and have them put to death
So put to death anything that comes from sinful desires.
I wanted to smack you.
See my hands
But the people thought highly of them.
Human anger doesnt produce the holy life God wants
Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia She stands for the present city of Jerusalem Thats because she and her children are slaves
Love one another deeply Honor others more than yourselves
The word of God is alive and active.
“I am coming to you now.
The angel said to me You can trust these words
Paul had said that they would never see him again. That’s what hurt them the most. Then they went with him to the ship.
God gave him the name that is above every name
Jesus placed his hands on a few sick people and healed them. But he could not do any other miracles there.
This was so that your faith would be based on God’s power. Your faith would not be based on human wisdom.
The traders who sold these things became rich because of Babylon When she suffers they will stand far away Her suffering will terrify them They will weep and mourn
Then we will receive mercy. We will find grace to help us when we need it.
which is why the Northern War in our country Ethiopia was able to reach a peace treaty
So we are sending Judas and Silas with them. What they say will agree with this letter.
So the body is not made up of just one part. It has many parts.
I don’t want to bother you. But would you be kind enough to listen to us for a short time?
Unless a grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies it remains only one seed
There is no Jew or Gentile. There is no slave or free person. There is no male or female. That’s because you are all one in Christ Jesus.
It was a huge red dragon.
Anyone who is wise should figure out what the beasts number means
Don’t treat prophecies as if they weren’t important.
And what is eternal life? It is knowing you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for something to use against Jesus They wanted to put him to death But they did not find any proof
It is also shown in how you live
Birds have another kind
I remember your tears. I long to see you so that I can be filled with joy.
The light shines in the darkness. But the darkness has not overcome the light.
Then you will know the truth
I havent decided yet
When the Lord Jesus finished speaking to them he was taken up into heaven He sat down at the right hand of God
You want what others have,
Jesus continued speaking You have a fine way of setting aside Gods commands You do this so you can follow your own teachings
But he has sent away empty those who are rich.
In the Aramaic language it was called Gabbatha
Jesus said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles hold power over their people. And those who order them around call themselves Protectors.
Everyone in heaven and on earth and under the earth will kneel down to worship him
But we have been truly circumcised
He has not become a priest because of a rule about his family line
But Jesus said to them I have shown you many good works from the Father
After Jesus had said this he went on ahead He was going up to Jerusalem
Trust in your leaders. Put yourselves under their authority. Do this, because they keep watch over you. They know they are accountable to God for everything they do. Do this, so that their work will be a joy. If you make their work a heavy load, it won’t do you any good.
At that time his voice shook the earth
They asked her Woman why are you crying
Large crowds followed him He healed them there
worshiping evil powers.
I am absolutely sure that nothing is “unclean” in itself. The Lord Jesus has convinced me of this. But someone may consider a thing to be “unclean.” If they do, it is “unclean” for them.
They came to the home of the synagogue leader There Jesus saw a lot of confusion People were crying and sobbing loudly
You are not faithful to God
Jesus began to speak against the towns where he had done most of his miracles The people there had not turned away from their sins So he said
Because of his faith he made his home in the land God had promised him. Abraham was like an outsider in a strange country. He lived there in tents. So did Isaac and Jacob. They received the same promise he did.
While Paul was still presenting his case Festus interrupted You are out of your mind Paul he shouted
In those days they will go without eating.
She opened her eyes When she saw Peter she sat up
A second angel followed him. He said, “‘Fallen! Babylon the Great has fallen!’  The city of Babylon made all the nations drink the strong wine of her terrible sins.”
Jesus answered, “What I teach is not my own.
But God was not pleased with most of them.
No one could enter the temple at that time.
Also, people do not light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its stand. Then it gives light to everyone in the house.
I answered, “Sir, you know.
So all of us who are grown up in the faith should see things this way.
I am the Mighty One.”
Dont let anyone think Im a fool
under your control
Those who live on the earth will be happy about this Thats because those two prophets had made them suffer The people will celebrate by sending one another gifts
They think only about earthly things.
And we are his house if we hold tightly to what we are certain about We must also hold tightly to the hope we boast in
Joseph was the son of Jonam.
Husbands love your wives Dont be mean to them
“Then the people who have done what is right will answer him. ‘Lord,’ they will ask, ‘when did we see you hungry and feed you? When did we see you thirsty and give you something to drink?
Suppose someone preaches a good news that is different from what you accepted That person should be cursed by God
But the sheep have not listened to them.
The apostles were full of joy as they left the Sanhedrin They considered it an honor to suffer shame for the name of Jesus
I want to leave Paris.
“No one ever spoke the way this man does,” the guards replied.
The world as it now exists is passing away.
Salvation also belongs to the Lamb.”
Whose shirt is this
the commander asked This man is a Roman citizen
Lazarus Dies
Then he appeared to the twelve apostles
Since he was a child he answered
Turn away from your sins
They said Prophesy And the guards took him and beat him
But they didnt find the apostles there
In fact, the time is coming when someone may kill you. And they will think they are doing God a favor.
Like newborn babies, you should long for the pure milk of God’s word. It will help you grow up as believers.
After the two days, Jesus left for Galilee.
The Story of the Lost Sheep
If we know that God hears what we ask for, we know that we have it.
Look I am placing a stone in Zion
Pray that you will not have to escape in winter or on the Sabbath day.
They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been blind
Martha Martha the Lord answered You are worried and upset about many things
Then the crowd there turned against Sosthenes the synagogue leader
So I am glad to explain my actions to you
Then the men who had been sent to Jesus returned to the house. They found that the servant was healed.
His voice sounded like rushing waters
I have a lot to write to you.
should we destroy it
He sent them to the Lord John told them to ask him Are you the one who is supposed to come
Some of you don’t know anything about God.
“Where, Lord?” his disciples asked.
Then let them serve as deacons if there is nothing against them.
He serves in the sacred tent. The Lord set up the true holy tent. A mere human being did not set it up.
The one who did what is right suffered for those who don’t do right. He suffered to bring you to God.
A believer named Timothy lived there.
They were terrified
They brag about themselves.
And suppose you do good to those who are good to you. Should anyone praise you for that? Even sinners do that.
Everyone has sinned.
The Jews answered Jesus, “Aren’t we right when we say you are a Samaritan?
Jesus went around teaching from village to village.
Preach the word Be ready to serve God in good times and bad Correct peoples mistakes Warn them Encourage them with words of hope Be very patient as you do these things Teach them carefully
He lives in keeping with the truth.
This hope is set before us in Gods promise So God made his promise and gave his word These two things cant change He couldnt lie about them
They know they are accountable to God for everything they do Do this so that their work will be a joy
May the grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
Whoever eats and drinks must recognize the body of Christ If they dont judgment will come upon them
He has saved us from our enemies.We are rescued from all who hate us.
“I have not been speaking to you plainly.
They say that the time when people will rise from the dead has already come
This was the second sign that Jesus did after coming from Judea to Galilee
What God commanded was too much for them. He said, “If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be killed with stones.”
Jesus had known from the beginning which of them did not believe.
Since the four years that our country, Ethiopia, especially the northern part, has been through, peace has not been possible under various circumstances።
Jesus replied, “I will also ask you a question. Tell me,
Late in the afternoon the twelve disciples came to him. They said, “Send the crowd away.
In fact, the water I give them will become a spring of water in them. It will flow up into eternal life.”
They are the ones who obey God’s commands. And they remain faithful to Jesus.
Suffering for Doing Good
Enoch had faith. So he was taken from this life. He didn’t die. “He couldn’t be found, because God had taken him away.”  Before God took him, Enoch was praised as one who pleased God.
“The eye is like a lamp for the body. Suppose your eyes are healthy. Then your whole body will be full of light.
Go quickly Tell his disciples He has risen from the dead He is going ahead of you into Galilee There you will see him Now I have told you
He said to them You also go and work in my vineyard
We have faith. So we understand that everything was made when God commanded it. That’s why we believe that what we see was not made out of what could be seen.
Judas Iscariot was one of the  disciples He went to the chief priests to hand Jesus over to them
So she went home and found her child lying on the bed. And the demon was gone.
Jesus our priest offered one sacrifice for sins for all time Then he sat down at the right hand of God
Dont think about how to satisfy sinful desires
“What I’m about to tell you is true. The people living now will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened.
But it is Gods power to us who are being saved
I don’t do the good things I want to do. I keep on doing the evil things I don’t want to do.
Were providing goods and tuff for the base of government workers
Make the most of every opportunity The days are evil
Then Andrew and Philip told Jesus.
When he finds it, he will joyfully put it on his shoulders
But it is not for me to say who will sit at my right or left hand. These places belong to those they are prepared for.”
But suppose that slave is evil Suppose he says to himself My master is staying away a long time
He was chosen before God created the world.
These people speak evil about things they don’t understand.
And his disciples believed in him.
They will take pleasure in evil. They will be judged.
She never left the temple She worshiped night and day praying and going without food
You have shown yourselves to be worthy by what you have given. So other people will praise God because you obey him. That proves that you really believe the good news about Christ. They will also praise God because you share freely with them and with everyone else.
Now you believe in Christ Jesus. So consider yourselves to be alive as far as God is concerned.
In the Law of the Lord it says
the message that is heard is the message about Christ
And you are proud! Shouldn’t you be very sad instead? Shouldn’t you have thrown out of your church the man doing this?
Who is it that has won the battle over the world? Only the person who believes that Jesus is the Son of God.
Those who heard him gave us the message about it
This happened three times.
The Story of the Renters
We looked for the believers there and stayed with them for seven days.
Those children have bodies made out of flesh and blood. So Jesus became human like them in order to die for them. By doing this, he could break the power of the devil. The devil is the one who rules over the kingdom of death.
So when you sent for me I came without asking any questions
But on the third day God raised him from the dead God allowed Jesus to be seen
When they picked him up from the ground, he was dead.
That good man lived among them day after day. He saw and heard the evil things they were doing. They were breaking God’s laws. And the godly spirit of Lot was deeply troubled.
He will oppose everything that is called God He will oppose everything that is worshiped He will give himself power over everything He will set himself up in Gods temple He will announce that he himself is God
After this, Jesus appeared to his disciples again. It was by the Sea of Galilee.
Keeping this in mind,
On their heads they wore something like crowns of gold
But things are different with God He makes ungodly people right with himself If people trust in him their faith is accepted even though they do not work Their faith makes them right with God
They did everything that had been written about Jesus. Then they took him down from the cross. They laid him in a tomb.
Some people have gone astray without knowing it. He is able to deal gently with them. He can do that because he himself is weak.
You have judged and murdered people who aren’t guilty. And they weren’t even opposing you.
Ask God to help and bless them Give thanks for them Pray for kings Pray for everyone who is in authority
I am a Samaritan woman How can you ask me for a drink
He said, “Throw your net on the right side of the boat.
I would rather die than allow anyone to take away my pride in my work
Is that blessing only for those who are circumcised Or is it also for those who are not circumcised We have been saying that God accepted Abrahams faith So his faith made him right with God
Faith in Gods Son Who Became a Human Being
And you shouldnt be committed only when I am with you You should always be committed
Then a teacher of the law came to him. He said, “Teacher, I will follow you no matter where you go.”
In Antioch they had been put in God’s care to preach the good news. They had now completed the work God had given them to do.
Go Stand in the temple courtyard the angel said Tell the people all about this new life
Titus had already started collecting money from you. So we asked him to help you finish making your kind gift.
There they got into a boat and headed across the lake toward Capernaum
Get down!
He asked what time his son got better. They said to him, “Yesterday, at one o’clock in the afternoon, the fever left him.”
the prophets also forced us to leave
A man named Cornelius lived in Caesarea.
He was waiting for God’s promise to Israel to come true. The Holy Spirit was with him.
I long to leave this world and be with Christ
People have to die once After that God will judge them
In the part of Scripture I talked about earlier God spoke.
They saw he was a special child.
All who depend on obeying the law are under a curse
And it told lies about those who live in heaven with him.
So they asked him, “You aren’t one of Jesus’ disciples too, are you?”
So my heart is glad and joy is on my tongue.
I have many reasons to trust in who I am and what I have done
While they were eating, he said, “What I’m about to tell you is true. One of you will hand me over to my enemies.”
Suppose you are offering your gift at the altar And you remember that your brother or sister has something against you
Don’t you know that you yourselves are God’s temple? Don’t you know that God’s Spirit lives among you?
She saw that the stone had been moved away from the entrance
I command you in the sight of God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels
Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are.
Then the Master will be able to use them for special purposes
Then they cried out, “Now we know you are controlled by a demon! Abraham died. So did the prophets. But you say that whoever obeys your word will never die.
They were dressed in clean shining linen
Then Jesus said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” So he stretched it out. It had been made as good as new. It was just as good as the other hand.
“Think about how the wild flowers grow. They don’t work or make clothing.
You be the judge
Then I will receive you.”
Was there ever a prophet your people didnt try to hurt
We dont live for ourselves only And we dont die for ourselves only
At once the Holy Spirit gave me a vision. There in front of me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it.
I remember your honest and true faith
The one who plants only a little will gather only a little. And the one who plants a lot will gather a lot.
To some people the Spirit gives a message of wisdom To others the same Spirit gives a message of knowledge
A woman was there who had a sickness that made her bleed
Then he wrote, “His name is John.”
“You are not even fifty years old,” they said to Jesus.
He is the exact likeness of Gods being
Pharaoh learned about Josephs family
I can come at three.
When we were safe on shore, we found out that the island was called Malta.
Jesus Appears to Mary Magdalene
“You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth.’
A slave has no lasting place in the family. But a son belongs to the family forever.
Your gifts also cause many people to thank God
“Where did this man get these things?” they asked. “What’s this wisdom that has been given to him? What are these remarkable miracles he is doing?
There is more to life than eating
You will see the hated thing that destroys It will stand where it does not belong The reader should understand this
God’s power has given us everything we need to lead a godly life.
Love for money causes all kinds of evil Some people want to get rich
It does not want what belongs to others
If anyone thinks they are somebody when they are nobody, they are fooling themselves.
Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth.
I hope so.
See what amazing love the Father has given us! Because of it, we are called children of God.
But now I am going to the one who sent me.
The law brings God’s anger.
Christ has paid the price for you
A man controlled by demons was brought to Jesus The man was blind and could not speak Jesus healed him Then the man could speak and see
Our children should also expect this culture not to be destroyed።
He wasnt just born as we are He also died on the cross
But they will never follow a stranger In fact they will run away from him They dont recognize a strangers voice
That’s why I write these things before I come to you. Then when I do come, I won’t have to be hard on you when I use my authority.
I really don't sing.
Peter kept on knocking.
We hear that some people among you dont want to work and are making trouble
There were three gates on the east
And they received the Holy Spirit.
But even then they will not listen to me.”
It does not brag
You did not give me a kiss. But this woman has not stopped kissing my feet since I came in.
We have never been slaves of anyone
But God raised him from the dead.
Now I want to talk about some other matters Brothers and sisters pray for us Pray that the Lords message will spread quickly Pray that others will honor it just as you did
You accepted it for what it really is
Does Christ take sides? Did Paul die on the cross for you? Were you baptized in the name of Paul?
You must help us by praying for us
You don’t care how important they are.
I think it is right for me to remind you.
No one trusts in God
From the least important to the most important,all of them will know me.
He asked Does our law find a man guilty without hearing him first
There were ten crowns on its horns
And if Christ has not been raised what we preach doesnt mean anything Your faith doesnt mean anything either
Here are the miraculous signs that those who believe will do In my name they will drive out demons They will speak in languages they had not known before
Do not let an unbelieving heart turn you away from the living God.
A jar of wine vinegar was there. So they soaked a sponge in it. They put the sponge on the stem of a hyssop plant. Then they lifted it up to Jesus’ lips.
But he is praised forever Amen
They have only one purpose So they will give their power and authority to the beast
During this time, all the people were crying and sobbing loudly over the child. “Stop crying!” Jesus said. “She is not dead. She is sleeping.”
Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies
we will live and do this or that
Don‘t fill yourself up with wine. Getting drunk will lead to wild living.
I pray to God that you wont do anything wrong
He is worthy to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength
The winepress stands for the terrible anger of the God who rules over all
The Story of the Lost Son
He went there with Mary to be listed. Mary was engaged to him. She was expecting a baby.
Jesus answered, “It is written, ‘Worship the Lord your God.
So I always try not to do anything wrong in the eyes of God or in the eyes of people.
The Pharisees came and began to ask Jesus questions They wanted to test him So they asked him for a sign from heaven
“It was the same in the days of Lot. People were eating and drinking. They were buying and selling. They were planting and building.
Then the man sent other slaves to the renters. He sent more than he did the first time. The renters treated them the same way.
Here is what I command you to write to the church in Sardis
I have come in my Fathers name
Suppose the dead are not raised at all Then why are people baptized for them
Some people standing there asked What are you doing Why are you untying that colt
Father, I pray they will be one, just as you are in me and I am in you. I want them also to be in us. Then the world will believe that you have sent me.
After Paul and Silas came out of the prison, they went to Lydia’s house. There they met with the brothers and sisters. They told them to be brave. Then they left.
Think about things that are in heaven. Don’t think about things that are only on earth.
So Joseph got up. During the night, he left for Egypt with the child and his mother Mary.
He does not keep the Sabbath day
I am part of the people of Israel
Peter replied All the others may turn away because of you But I never will
Question him yourself Then you will learn the truth about all these charges we are bringing against him
Just as there is one loaf, so we who are many are one body. We all share the one loaf.
He told him the good news about Jesus
I have written it to encourage you
He said, “In a certain town there was a judge. He didn’t have any respect for God or care about what people thought.
Why are you trying to kill me?”
“The merchants will say, ‘The pleasure you longed for has left you. All your riches and glory have disappeared forever.’
We didn’t eat anyone’s food without paying for it.
The brightness of the light had blinded me So my companions led me by the hand into Damascus
Everything that belongs to the Father is mine. That is why I said what the Holy Spirit receives from me he will show to you.”
But Jesus often went away to be by himself and pray.Jesus Forgives and Heals a Man Who Could Not Walk
He grabbed the dragon that old serpent The serpent is also called the devil or Satan The angel put him in chains for one thousend year
Then the master told his servant Go out to the roads Go out to the country lanes Make the people come in I want my house to be full
Was there ever a city like this great city?
Did you receive the Holy Spirit by obeying the law Or did you receive the Spirit by believing what you heard
Suppose one of you says to them,
Jesus ordered the people not to tell anyone. But the more he did so, the more they kept talking about it.
They are the Holy Spirit
He told them, “The secret of God’s kingdom has been given to you. But to outsiders everything is told using stories.
She lay down to commit her sin so I will make her lie down in suffering. Those who commit adultery with her will suffer greatly too. Their only way out is to turn away from what she taught them to do.
the tomb was nearby. So they placed Jesus there.
He told those who were selling doves “Get these out of here! Stop turning my Father’s house into a market!”
But he learned about their plan. Day and night they watched the city gates closely in order to kill him.
Greet Ampliatus, my dear friend in the Lord.
The Lamb went and took the scroll. He took it from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne.
It produces a crop that is useful to those who farm the land. That land receives God’s blessing.
You are the Holy One of God!”
Who is the prophet talking about?
He said to another man Follow me
You will not let your holy one rot away
“So he called in each person who owed his master something. He asked the first one, ‘How much do you owe my master?’
Let us stop judging one another Instead decide not to put anything in the way of a brother or sister
Unlike many people we arent selling Gods word to make money In fact it is just the opposite
And you know where I am from
He has sent me to announce freedom for prisoners.
The flames separated and came to rest on each of them.
“ ‘These people honor me by what they say.
Jesus looked at him and loved him You are missing one thing he said Go and sell everything you have Give the money to those who are poor You will have treasure in heaven Then come and follow me
He would not have let his house be broken into
Many others who lived in Corinth heard Paul. They too believed and were baptized.
Then I looked and heard the voice of millions and millions of angels.
Brothers and sisters, you know that our visit to you produced results.
Shout for joy and cry out loudyou who have never had labor pains
But someone will say You have faith I do good deeds
“Give glory to God by telling the truth!” they said.
But she has been pregnant for six months now.
Because he is at my right hand,
And that’s not all. Rebekah’s children were born at the same time by the same father. He was our father Isaac.
But the mind ruled by the Spirit brings life and peace.
and the time for your anger has come.
But they kept shouting Crucify him Crucify him
About noon a bright light from heaven suddenly flashed around me
The days will come when your enemies will arrive. They will build a wall of dirt up against your city. They will surround you and close you in on every side.
“I feel deep concern for these people. They have already been with me three days. They don’t have anything to eat.
His mother said to the servants, “Do what he tells you.”
Then the disciples understood that Jesus was talking to them about John the Baptist
What we have received is not the spirit of the world. We have received the Spirit who is from God. The Spirit helps us understand what God has freely given us.
Jesus turned and said to them, “Daughters of Jerusalem do not weep for me. Weep for yourselves and for your children.
The chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus stories They knew he was talking about them
Jesus said, “I have come into this world to judge it.
Jesus began to speak to the people using stories. He said, “A man planted a vineyard. He put a wall around it. He dug a pit for a winepress. He also built a lookout tower. He rented the vineyard out to some farmers. Then he went to another place.
Once again the leaders called in Peter and John They commanded them not to s peak or teach at all in Jesus name
A third of the stars were struck.
I am the Living One.
My body is real food. My blood is real drink.
These men haven’t robbed any temples. They haven’t said evil things against our female god. But you have brought them here anyhow.
Then you will tell people about me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria And you will even tell other people about me from one end of the earth to the other
I destroy every claim and every reason that keeps people from knowing God.
“Those who were not told about him will understand.
You have hidden these things from wise and educated people But you have shown them to little children
He must welcome people into his home
I am not seeking glory for myself. But there is one who brings glory to me. He is the judge.
They will all wear out like a piece of clothing.
Command the rich to do what is good
Here is what was written in the Scripture already given
And we belong to the true God by belonging to his Son, Jesus Christ.
and break open its seals.
The world doesn’t know us because it didn’t know him.
“Don’t do that! I serve God,
Our fight is not against human beings. It is against the rulers, the authorities and the powers of this dark world. It is against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly world.
Who died?
I will raise them up on the last day.”
I will not remain in the world any longer.
Joseph had faith. So he spoke to the people of Israel about how they would leave Egypt someday.
Then why was the law given at all
The dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to have a baby. The dragon wanted to eat her child the moment he was born.
The Holy Spirit had kept them from preaching the word in Asia Minor.
Is it right for us to pay taxes to Caesar or not
“Everything they do is done for others to see. On their foreheads and arms they wear little boxes that hold Scripture verses. They make the boxes very wide. And they make the tassels on their coats very long.
He announced the good news ahead of time to Abraham.
Or what about the eighten people in Siloam? They died when the tower fell on them. Do you think they were more guilty than all the others living in Jerusalem?
Jesus replied, “People in this world get married. And their parents give them to be married.
It is true that they have seen the light. They have tasted the heavenly gift.
Who hopes for what they already have
Shelah was the son of Cainan.
He told them, “It is written that the Lord said, ‘My house will be a house where people can pray.’  But you have made it a ‘den for robbers.’ ”
Ever since the world was created it has been possible to see the qualities of God that are not seen. I’m talking about his eternal power and about the fact that he is God. Those things can be seen in what he has made. So people have no excuse for what they do.
It opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had spit out.
but the workers are few.
When he arrived in Galilee, the people living there welcomed him.
Ashkolletsche is the main part of the game and singing wrestling are part of the game።
But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to set Israel free Also it is the third day since all this happened
Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore.
It said,
Moses considered it better than the riches of Egypt He was looking ahead to his reward
I am engaged to her.
Be faithful, even if it means you must die.
Jesus said to them This is what I told you while I was still with you Everything written about me in the Law of Moses the Prophets and the Psalms must come true
The Faith of a Woman From Canaan
You are worthy our Lord and God
Suppose I decide to brag. That would not make me a fool, because I would be telling the truth. But I don’t brag, so that no one will think more of me than they should. People should judge me by what I do and say.
If it does we ask you not to become easily upset or alarmed
It is strong and secure. It goes all the way into the Most Holy Room behind the curtain.
“Father, I thank you for hearing me.
In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the law made fun of him among themselves He saved others they said But he cant save himself
Even when we were with you, we gave you a rule.
Then Jesus walked a little farther As he did he saw James the son of Zebedee and his brother John They were in a boat preparing their nets
Jesus called the crowd to him along with his disciples. He said, “Whoever wants to be my disciple must say no to themselves. They must pick up their cross and follow me.
They have told the church about your love. Please help them by sending them on their way in a manner that honors God.
Isn’t the potter free to make different kinds of pots out of the same lump of clay?
They spoke the word of the Lord to him. They also spoke to all the others in his house.
So the angel swung his blade over the earth. He gathered its grapes. Then he threw them into a huge winepress. The winepress stands for God’s anger.
The Plan to Kill Paul
I want to finish my task. I want to make sure that the poor in Jerusalem have received this offering. Then I will go to Spain. On my way I will visit you.
Jesus continued, “There was a man who had two sons.
The parts that we think are less important we treat with special honor.
He accepted her gift
Jesus Comes to Jerusalem as King
Timothy, I am sending you this letter. You are my true son in the faith.
I went because God showed me what he wanted me to do
How was your weekend
“I will announce your name to my brothers and sisters.
They gave him a piece of cooked fish
So give a strong warning to people who refuse to obey God
Then he fell on his knees. He cried out, “Lord! Don’t hold this sin against them!” When he had said this, he died.
Do not work for food that spoils.
I will sing the praises of your name.”
You lived a wild life.
To those who are dying, we are the smell of death. To those who are being saved, we are the perfume of life.
On the name of the Lord will be saved.’
We are bringing you good news Turn away from these worthless things Turn to the living God
Thats why God accepted Abraham because he believed So his faith made him right with God
When the Sanhedrin heard this, they covered their ears. They yelled at the top of their voices. They all rushed at him.
So we can say boldly,
They are like clouds without rain.
Its heat will melt everything in them.
they all have meaning
They set traps for him. They wanted to catch him in something he might say.
He was absolutely sure that God had the power to do what he had promised
The sound I heard was like the music of harps being played.
His eyes are like blazing fire.
Someone might argue When I lie it becomes clearer that God is truthful
God showed that there is no difference between us and them Thats because he made their hearts pure because of their faith
One person was there who had not been able to walk for thirty eight years.
Everyone said good things about him.
He is not here He has risen just as he said he would Come and see the place where he was lying
What if he put up with them to show the riches of his glory to other people? Those other people are the ones he shows his mercy to. He made them to receive his glory.
Many will come in my name. They will claim, ‘I am he.’ They will fool many people.
Jesus replied Keep watch Be careful that you are not fooled Many will come in my name They will claim I am he And they will say The time is near Do not follow them
But the Pharisees went out and planned how to kill Jesus.
I saw a beast coming out of the sea It had ten horns and seven heads
Again they tried to arrest him.
Himself or someone else
Peter turned around He saw that the disciple Jesus loved was following them
After three months we headed out to sea
First I preached to people in Damascus.
They traveled as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns to meet us.
Always be joyful because you belong to the Lord. I will say it again. Be joyful!
Masters give your slaves what is right and fair
Then you will be able to lead a life that is worthy of the Lord. We pray that you will please him in every way. So we want you to bear fruit in every good thing you do. We pray that you will grow to know God better.
I like dragon fruit.
The Lord will punish everyone who commits these kinds of sins We have already told you and warned you about this
You know how badly I have been treated
I try.
Anyone who hates their brother or sister is a murderer
Simon Peter had a sword and pulled it out He struck the high priests slave and cut off his right ear
Joanan was the son of Rhesa.
Now may a way be opened up for us to come to you. May our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus do this.
Godly Jews from every country in the world were staying in Jerusalem.
Greet the believers who live in the house of Narcissus.
You gave him authority over all people.
Anyone who follows me will never walk in darkness
In the very same way these ungodly people act on their evil dreams So they make their own bodies impure
It opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had spit out
Dont let it trouble you
Seven trumpets were given to them
has become the most important stone of all
or danger
God gives life to everything. Christ Jesus told the truth when he was a witness in front of Pontius Pilate. In the sight of God and Christ, I give you a command.
All his insides spilled out
When Simon Peter saw this he fell at Jesus knees
And what is out of date and has been done away with will soon disappear.
The second looked like an ox
If it did, it would no longer depend on the promise.
He asked for something to write on
A great sign appeared in heaven
With smooth talk and with words they don’t mean they fool people who don’t know any better.
But a married man is concerned about the matters of this world. He wants to know how he can please his wife.
Put up with hard times. God uses them to train you.
But Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea.
“Dear woman, why are you telling me about this?” Jesus replied.
In the cases that should be resolved, however, there is a difference።
three on the west
Anyone who hates their brother or sister is a murderer And you know that no murderer has eternal life
the towns around them also did evil things. They freely committed sexual sins. They committed sins of the worst possible kind.
But the Pharisees said He drives out demons by the power of the prince of demons
I stayed with him for fiftyen days
Then the disciples understood that Jesus was talking to them about John the Baptist.
They went to their own town of Nazareth
Whatever anyone else dares to brag about, I also dare to brag about.
Jesus mother was there
God told him that circumcision would show who the members of the covenant were
He also knew he had come from God and was returning to God
We do what pleases him
May God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give peace to the brothers and sisters. May they also give the believers love and faith?
Then I heard the noise of a huge crowd.
You will become pregnant and give birth to a son.
I saw “a new heaven and a new earth.”
Then Levi gave a huge banquet for Jesus at his house
You can easily check on this
So remember what you have been taught and have heard Hold firmly to it Turn away from your sins If you dont wake up I will come like a thief You wont know when I will come to you
Paul and Silas Arrive in Thessalonica
It will be good for the servant if the master finds him doing his job when the master returns.
Suppose you could have torn out your own eyes and given them to me Then you would have done it I am a witness to this
They made Jason and the others give them money The officials did this to make sure they would return to the court Then they let Jason and the others go
The glory of the old lasts for only a short time. How much greater is the glory of the new! It will last forever.
Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin I will give that person hidden manna to eat
When they arrived there, they prayed for the new believers. They prayed that they would receive the Holy Spirit.
Unlike many people, we aren’t selling God’s word to make money. In fact, it is just the opposite.
I am the Living One. I was dead. But now look! I am alive for ever and ever! And I hold the keys to Death and Hell.
The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him. John said, “Look! The Lamb of God! He takes away the sin of the world!
The horses and riders I saw in my vision had armor on their chests. It was red like fire, dark blue, and yellow like sulfur. The heads of the horses looked like lions’ heads. Out of their mouths came fire, smoke and sulfur.
He didnt need anyone to tell him what people are like He already knew why people do what they do
What happens when an evil spirit comes out of a person It goes through dry areas looking for a place to rest But it doesnt find it
The crowd saw what Paul had done. They shouted in the Lycaonian language. “The gods have come down to us in human form!” they exclaimed.
Sexual Sins
It never gives up
The fifth angel blew his trumpet. Then I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth. The star was given the key to the tunnel leading down into a bottomless pit. The pit was called the Abyss.
So you dont need anyone to teach you Gods Spirit teaches you about everything
Tombs broke open The bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life
Melki was the son of Addi.
The brothers and sisters who are with me send greetings
God’s Chosen Servant
They like to argue more than they should
I cant shut it down
But I didn’t want to do anything unless you agreed.
He leads the whole world astray
People will come from east and west and north and south They will take their places at the feast in Gods kingdom
Who can forgive sins but God alone
Jesus was in the back, sleeping on a cushion. The disciples woke him up. They said, “Teacher! Don’t you care if we drown?”
But Jesus bent down and started to write on the ground with his finger.
I pray that you may understand more clearly. Then you will know the hope God has chosen you to receive.
Jesus looked at them and said With people this is impossible But not with God All things are possible with God
He did it so you could share in his nature.
They are worse than someone who doesn’t believe.
One day Jesus was eating with them. He gave them a command. “Do not leave Jerusalem,” he said. “Wait for the gift my Father promised. You have heard me talk about it.
While Peter was still speaking, a bright cloud covered them. A voice from the cloud said, “This is my Son, and I love him. I am very pleased with him. Listen to him!”
So the one sitting on the cloud swung his blade over the earth. And the earth was harvested.
“Suppose someone wants to love life
Every day the Lord added to their group those who were being saved.
Finally Pilate handed Jesus over to them to be nailed to a cross
They have told the church about your love.
The High Priest of a New Covenant
knowledge will pass away
We know that God spoke to Moses.
So the one sitting on the cloud swung his blade over the earth And the earth was harvested
Our Lord God is the King who rules over all
Instead one of the soldiers stuck his spear into Jesus side
The people were all filled with wonder and praised God. “A great prophet has appeared among us,” they said. “God has come to help his people.”
I keep on doing the evil things I don’t want to do.
I really have to go
I completely expect and hope that I won’t be ashamed in any way. I’m sure I will be brave enough. Now as always Christ will receive glory because of what happens to me. He will receive glory whether I live or die.
The appointed day came Herod was seated on his throne He was wearing his royal robes He made a speech to the people
Iam writing this letterI am sending it to youmy dear friend Gaius
When the commandment gave sin the opportunity, sin tricked me.
Or did others talk to you about me
Then he said, “Here I am. I have come to do what you want.” He did away with the shadow of the good things that were coming. He did it to put in place the good things themselves.
Again and again I almost died.
After all, what is Apollos? And what is Paul? We are only people who serve. We helped you to believe. The Lord has given each of us our own work to do.
Watch out for those dogs They are people who do evil things When they circumcise it is nothing more than a useless cutting of the body
But we don’t know how he can now see. And we don’t know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is an adult. He can speak for himself.”
So you see that what he believed and what he did were working together.
But suppose you suffer for being a Christian Then dont be ashamed
John’s disciples heard about this. So they came and took his body. Then they placed it in a tomb.
More and more men and women believed in the Lord They joined the other believers
But whoever loves God is known by God
But the Jewish leaders kept shouting If you let this man go
While Jesus was saying this a synagogue leader came He got down on his knees in front of Jesus He said My daughter has just died But come and place your hand on her Then she will live again
The government on the other hand makes no distinction around the demands of the Amhara people።
Then Jesus directed the people to sit down on the grass. He took the five loaves and the two fish. He looked up to heaven and gave thanks. He broke the loaves into pieces. Then he gave them to the disciples. And the disciples gave them to the people.
Herod was king of Judea During the time he was ruling there was a priest named Zechariah He belonged to a group of priests named after Abijah
They have all become worthless.
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” he continued. “A prophet is not accepted in his hometown.
The free woman gave birth to the other one.
Right away Jesus made the disciples get into the boat. He had them go on ahead of him to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. Then he sent the crowd away.
Then I saw a Lamb that looked as if he had been put to death
Whatever anyone else dares to brag about I also dare to brag about Im speaking like a fool
Our natural bodies don’t last forever. They must be dressed with what does last forever.
Because of their faith they took over kingdoms. They ruled fairly. They received the blessings God had promised. They shut the mouths of lions.
God brought you out of darkness into his wonderful light
Instead he made himself nothing
Suppose you see any brother or sister commit a sin But this sin is not the kind that leads to death
“I am not,” he replied.
It is an important city in that part of Macedonia.
The explanation here is that - Birr is paid to unload or load one quintal load from a car
He has judged the great prostitute
“We can,” they answered.
Jesus said to his mother Dear woman here is your son
Jesus answered Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again
He scattered the seed on the ground Some fell on a path Birds came and ate it up
In Jerusalem there was a man named Simeon. He was a good and godly man.
The second angel poured out his bowl on the sea It turned into blood like the blood of a dead person Every living thing in the sea died
I don't like English.
Then the angel took the gold cup and filled it with fire from the altar
Nazareth Can anything good come from there Nathanael asked
At that time Gods word came to John son of Zechariah in the desert
And he came home able to see
Paul Preaches in Athens
is not telling the truth
Paul said, “John baptized people, calling them to turn away from their sins. He told them to believe in the one who was coming after him. Jesus is that one.”
Lightning that comes from the east can be seen in the west It will be the same when the Son of Man comes
To this day, when the Law of Moses is read, a veil covers the minds of those who hear it.
Tell us then what do you think Is it right to pay the royal tax to Caesar or not
But he has sent away empty those who are rich
We were all baptized by one Holy Spirit. And so we are formed into one body. It didn’t matter whether we were Jews or Gentiles, slaves or free people. We were all given the same Spirit to drink.
But you know that Christ came to take our sins away
The second one got married to the widow. He also died and left no child.
I have been saying nothing different from what the prophets and Moses said would happen
Ill let you decide
The words once more point out that what can be shaken can be taken away Im talking about created things Then what cant be shaken will remain
It was thought that he was the son of Joseph.
You pretender! First take the piece of wood out of your own eye.
You have gathered the benefits of their work
So the people were stirred up. The elders and the teachers of the law were stirred up too.
Some people still follow the basic spiritual powers of the world But you died with Christ as far as these powers are concerned
Jesus answered Havent you read about what David did He and his men were hungry
Believers at Corinth, we have spoken freely to you. We have opened our hearts wide to you.
Here is what people who suffer because of God’s plan should do. They should commit themselves to their faithful Creator. And they should continue to do good.
When a person is tempted they shouldnt say
You believe there is one God
I told Abrham I was OK
Methuselah was the son of Enoch.
If I pray in another language my spirit prays
He has a nice income.
He hadnt been able to use his feet since the day he was born
We know that what we used to be was nailed to the cross with him That happened so our bodies that were ruled by sin would lose their power So we are no longer slaves of sin
But the Pharisees and the authorities on the law did not accept for themselves Gods purpose So they had not been baptized by John
He digs down deep and sets it on solid rock
Lend to them without expecting to get anything back.
I think it is right for me to remind you
Remember that while our Lord is waiting patiently to return people are being saved Our dear brother Paul also wrote to you about this God made him wise to write as he did
Hold this.
You gain a lot when you live a godly life.
I am very proud of you.
Have you come to destroy us I know who you are
Herod Dies
Some Pharisees came to test Jesus. They asked, “Does the Law allow a man to divorce his wife?”
We all share the one loaf
Whoever belongs to the Son has life. Whoever doesn’t belong to the Son of God doesn’t have life.
But their minds were made stubborn To this day the same veil remains when the old covenant is read
But you know all about my teaching
He let only Peter, James, and John, the brother of James, follow him.
They marched across the whole earth They surrounded the place where Gods holy people were camped It was the city he loves But fire came down from heaven and burned them up
“Or suppose a king is about to go to war aainst another king.
Many people in the crowd were whispering about him. Some said, “He is a good man.”
Simon was one of them. Jesus gave him the name Peter.
Heaven and earth will pass away.
So Judas came to the garden. He was guiding a group of soldiers and some officials. The chief priests and the Pharisees had sent them.
Jesus said to Zacchaeus Today salvation has come to your house You are a member of Abrahams family line
Everyone who is with me sends you greetings
These people will be from every tribe and nation
Jesus Heals a Boy Who Is Controlled by an Evil Spirit
But some of them said Jesus is driving out demons by the power of Beelzebul the prince of demons
I cried and cried Thats because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside
That person is worse off than before
So the soldiers took charge of Jesus
Then she was a widow until she was eighty four.
But one man did obey. That is why many people will be made right with God.
Never again will they be hungry
We are like the earthly man.
Who touched me Jesus asked
remember what the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ said would happen.
God is the only one who can’t die.
How terrible for you great city
“What do you want to tell me?” the officer asked.
The king stood up.
And do everything you can to live a quiet life. You should mind your own business. And work with your hands, just as we told you to.
He has set a day when he will judge the world fairly He has appointed a man to be its judge God has proved this to everyone by raising that man from the dead
But we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth. Godliness will live there. All this is in keeping with God’s promise.
Timothy will visit you Make sure he has nothing to worry about while he is with you
God the Father gave him honor and glory.
He shouted at the top of his voice, “Jesus, Son of the Most High God, what do you want with me? Swear to God that you won’t hurt me!”
I’m writing to you because you know the one who is from the beginning.
The fire that Sosgna bled at to thicken was a sign of an incense between three turns for Queen Eleni to find the cross
Not many of you were considered wise by human standards. Not many of you were powerful. Not many of you belonged to important families.
“Look! I am coming soon!
Some of the people became followers of Paul and believed in Jesus. Dionysius was one of them. He was a member of the Areopagus. A woman named Damaris also became a believer. And so did some others.
Some people say they are Jews but are not I know that their words are evil
A friend of mine on a journey has come to stay with me I have no food to give him
Because Israel sinned the Gentiles can be saved
So how can you say that we will be set free?”
Those clothes are made out of goats hair
They shouted back No Not him Give us Barabbas
If I had not come and spoken to them they would not be guilty of sin
He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
Everyone the Father gives me will come to me. I will never send away anyone who comes to me.
From noon until three o’clock, the whole land was covered with darkness.
It is still true that some people will enjoy this rest
I didn’t stir up any trouble.
After that Christ went and made an announcement to the spirits in prison
So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus. This is so we can be made right with God by believing in Christ.We are not made right by obeying the law.
In fact, it has continued this way since God first created everything.”
We sent him so that no one would be upset by times of testing
Thats the way you lived at one time in your life
Then the angel left her.
Instead the law makes us more aware of our sin
The owner answered one of them Friend he said Im being fair to you Didnt you agree to work for the usual days pay
The royal law is found in Scripture. It says,
The apostles called him Barnabas.
But suppose we walk in the light, just as he is in the light. Then we share life with one another.
The rest of the dead did not come to life until the one thoused years were ended.
Fancy hairstyles don’t make you beautiful. Wearing gold jewelry or fine clothes doesn’t make you beautiful.
the Spirit prays for God’s people just as God wants him to pray.
“Fall on us!
The wind blows where it wants to.
What will happen is even surer than this. Those who receive the rich supply of God’s grace will rule with Christ.
Was he uncircumcised when God chose him? Then he should not be circumcised.
Give glory to God by telling the truth they said
This is the God who created the sky
Gods power to be made right with him is given to the person who has faith It happens by faith from beginning to end
Do you see all this The time will come when not one stone will be left on top of another Every stone will be thrown down
You are witnesses of how we lived among you believers. God is also a witness that we were holy and godly and without blame.
And suppose he decides he can’t win. Then he will send some men to ask how peace can be made. He will do this while the other king is still far away.
Then the believers prayed. They said, “Lord, you know everyone’s heart.
Peter replied, “All of you must turn away from your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then your sins will be forgiven.
Then Christ will shine on you.”
The works that I do in my Fathers name are a witness for me
Then his master commanded the other slaves Take the bag of gold from him Give it to the one who has ten bags
I will pay them back,”  says the Lord.
A man gathers a crop from what he plants
God “will pay back each person in keeping with what they have done.”
They prayed that daylight would come.
Festus Talks With King Agrippa
The temple curtain was torn in two from top to bottom.
It is the same as having her head shaved
When they were not accepted, it became possible for the whole world to be brought back to God. So what will happen when they are accepted? It will be like life from the dead.
Crowds even gathered from the towns around Jerusalem. They brought their sick people. They also brought those who were suffering because of evil spirits.
And he gave them authority to drive out demons
He trusted me with that good news
Jesus our priest offered one sacrifice for sins for all time. Then he sat down at the right hand of God.
But anyone who hates their life in this world will keep it and have eternal life
But I will also pray with my understanding.
It is God’s word.
The strength to go on produces character. Character produces hope.
But I tell you this. On judgment day it will be easier for Sodom than for you.”
A messenger is calling out in the desertPrepare the way for the Lord Make straight paths for him
Your years will never end
So you became a model to all the believers in the lands of Macedonia and Achaia
They became blood
You believe there is one God.
Humor me
By his power God raised the Lord from the dead He will also raise us up
I know that power has gone out from me.”
Live so that you dont have to feel youve done anything wrong
The end of all things is near. So be watchful and control yourselves. Then you may pray.
The dead man sat up and began to talk. Then Jesus gave him back to his mother.
It was the time for prayer.
His only daughter was dying She was about twelve years old
We were locked up until this faith was made known.
We didnt eat anyones food without paying for it
As far as keeping the law is concerned I kept it perfectly
His name will be on their foreheads.
Then one of those standing nearby pulled his sword out. He struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.
So here is what I ask.
“How can someone be born when they are old?” Nicodemus asked.
Keep your lamps burning.
It causes fighting harmful talk and evil distrust
But here is what I am writing to you now. You must stay away from anyone who claims to be a believer but does evil things. Stay away from anyone who commits sexual sins. Stay away from anyone who always wants more and more things. Stay away from anyone who worships statues of gods. Stay away from anyone who tells lies about others. Stay away from anyone who gets drunk or who cheats. Don’t even eat with people like these.
Then Jesus went to Capernaum, a town in Galilee. On the Sabbath day he taught the people.
James and John Ask Jesus for a Favor
Now Herod, the ruler of Galilee, heard about everything that was going on.
Then I looked and heard the voice of millions and millions of angels. They surrounded the throne. They surrounded the living creatures and the elders.
I want to finish my task I want to make sure that the poor in Jerusalem have received this offering Then I will go to Spain On my way I will visit you
Jesus Calms the Storm
“My name is Legion,” he replied. “There are many of us.”
Greet Priscilla and Aquila They work together with me in serving Christ Jesus
The ship and everything in it will be lost Our own lives will be in danger also
He is my brother in the Lord.
“But the man who was treating the other one badly pushed Moses to one side. He said, ‘Who made you ruler and judge over us?
And I will keep on doing what Im doing That will stop those who claim they have things to brag about They think they have a chance to be considered equal with us
So keep watch You do not know when the owner of the house will come back It may be in the evening or at midnight It may be when the rooster crows or at dawn
They knew God But they didnt honor him as God They didnt thank him Their thinking became worthless Their foolish hearts became dark
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than anyone. No one can steal them out of my Father’s hand.
In the church I wouldnt want to speak  words in an unfamiliar language Id rather speak five words in a language people could understand Then I would be teaching others
We would have to go and buy food for all this crowd.”
So we must pay the most careful attention to what we have heard Then we will not drift away from it
The people were amazed at his teaching Thats because he taught them like one who had authority He did not talk like the teachers of the law
Then Jesus said to the Roman commander Go It will be done just as you believed it would And his servant was healed at that moment
This is why I remind you to help Gods gift grow just as a small spark grows into a fire God put his gift in you when I placed my hands on you
Here’s what it is. “Love your neighbor as you love yourself.”
He agreed to give them the usual pay for a days work Then he sent them into his vineyard
We did this so that the truth of the good news would be kept safe for you
He told them The harvest is huge
“You were like sheep wandering away.” But now you have returned to the Shepherd. He is the one who watches over your souls.
I give my love to all of you who belong to Christ Jesus Amen
Blessed is the person who keeps on going when times are hard. After they have come through hard times, this person will receive a crown. The crown is life itself. The Lord has promised it to those who love him.
What I’m about to tell you is true. The master will put that servant in charge of everything he owns.
So I stand here and tell you what is true. I tell it to everyone, both small and great.
Jesus called the crowd to him along with his disciples He said Whoever wants to be my disciple must say no to themselves They must pick up their cross and follow me
He threw himself at Jesus’ feet and thanked him. The man was a Samaritan.
Gods kingdom is not about eating or drinking It is about doing what is right and having peace and joy All this comes through the Holy Spirit
Then the commanding officer called for two of his commanders. He ordered them, “Gather a company of  soldiers,  horsemen and  men armed with spears. Get them ready to go to Caesarea at nine o’clock tonight.
We remember you when we pray to our God and Father. Your work is produced by your faith. Your service is the result of your love. Your strength to continue comes from your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
A Warning to Rich People
Every living thing in the sea died
They shouted back, “No! Not him! Give us Barabbas!”
He is as tall as her.
Through faith in Jesus we have received Gods grace In that grace we stand We are full of joy because we expect to share in Gods glory
If not what did you go out to see A man dressed in fine clothes No People who wear fine clothes are in kings palaces
At Troas we got into a boat. We sailed straight for Samothrace.
Brothers and sisters you are loved by God
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates
a messenger is not more important than the one who sends him.
But he will burn up the husks with fire that cant be put out
A man dressed in fine clothes
“Do you see all this? The time will come when not one stone will be left on top of another. Every stone will be thrown down.”
Maybe they will come to their senses Maybe they will escape the devils trap He has taken them as prisoners to do what he wanted
Your Father knows that you need them.
The people heard his words. Some of them said, “This man must be the Prophet we’ve been expecting.”
I'm absolutely elated.
Jesus saw two boats at the edge of the water
Each of us should please our neighbors Let us do what is good for them in order to build them up
In the same way, deacons must be worthy of respect. They must be honest and true. They must not drink too much wine. They must not try to get money by cheating people.
Then all the people who lived in the area of the Gerasenes asked Jesus to leave them.
The next day Paul and the rest of us went to see James.
Then those who oppose you will be ashamed
Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he said to them, “Every kingdom that fights against itself will be destroyed. Every city or family that is divided against itself will not stand.
My brother we both belong to the Lord So I wish I could receive some benefit from you
I'll put in once.
We owe it all to Christ who has loved us
The news about Jesus spread throughout the whole area
That evening after sunset, the people brought to Jesus all who were sick. They also brought all who were controlled by demons.
One of them was named Agabus He stood up and spoke through the Spirit
The people will turn their ears away from the truth They will turn to stories that arent true
The number of believers in Jerusalem grew quickly.
A large crowd gathered together People came to Jesus from town after town As they did he told a story He said
He may come suddenly. So do not let him find you sleeping.
You have seen me and you still do not believe
Erastus stayed in Corinth
They will be called children of God.
Teach one another by singing psalms and hymns and songs from the Spirit.
When Pilate heard this, he asked if the man was from Galilee.
Joseph went to Pilate and asked for Jesus’ body.
in what you believe.
This will be my third visit to you. Scripture says, “Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses.”
I long to leave this world and be with Christ.
This is the blood of the covenant God has commanded you to keep
Then I was told about a plan against the man. So I sent him to you at once.
you know that what we say is true.
The voice said Write on a scroll what you see Send it to the seven churches in Asia Minor They are Ephesus Smyrna Pergamum Thyatira Sardis Philadelphia and Laodicea
In the same way, I want the women to be careful how they dress. They should wear clothes that are right and proper. They shouldn’t wear their hair in very fancy styles. They shouldn’t wear gold or pearls. They shouldn’t wear clothes that cost a lot of money.
And this is what Christ does for the church.
Continuing on from Tyre, we landed at Ptolemais.
under your control.”
But suppose your hearts are jealous and bitter Suppose you are concerned only about getting ahead Then dont brag about it And dont say no to the truth
The Lord helps me I will not be afraid
They spent the rest of the day with him.
We entered the mans house
I will not leave you like children who dont have parents
His clothes became so white they shone They were whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them
It was God who raised him from the dead.
Jesus continued, “In a little while, you will no longer see me. Then after a little while, you will see me.”
Don’t let all kinds of strange teachings lead you astray. It is good that God’s grace makes our hearts strong. Don’t try to grow strong by eating foods that the law requires. They have no value for the people who eat them.
But those who marry someone will have many troubles in this life.
The people arguing were getting out of control. The commanding officer was afraid that Paul would be torn to pieces by them. So he ordered the soldiers to go down and take him away from them by force. The officer had told them to bring Paul into the fort.
Six stone water jars stood nearby. The Jews used water from that kind of jar for special washings. They did that to make themselves pure and “clean.” Each jar could hold twenty to thirty gallons.
I dont have time to tell about David and Samuel and the prophets
Then unbelievers will have respect for your everyday life.
But in these last days he has spoken to us through his Son He is the one whom God appointed to receive all things
She saw two angels dressed in white. They were seated where Jesus’ body had been. One of them was where Jesus’ head had been laid. The other sat where his feet had been placed.
So when the crowd gathered, Pilate asked them, “Which one do you want me to set free? Jesus Barabbas? Or Jesus who is called the Messiah?”
Keep your lamps burning
They have been adopted as Gods children
The believers in Macedonia and Achaia were pleased to take an offering It was for those who were poor among the Lords people in Jerusalem
Then Jesus answered, “Will you really give your life for me? What I’m about to tell you is true. Before the rooster crows, you will say three times that you don’t know me!
Sir they said we would like to see Jesus
So we need to choose someone to take his place. It will have to be a man who was with us the whole time the Lord Jesus was living among us.
But Saul grew more and more powerful.
Then he said Jesus remember me when you come into your kingdom
I love you because of the truth
They told him Jesus of Nazareth is passing by
Anyone who takes the humble position of this child is the most important in the kingdom of heaven
Melchizedek was the king of Salem He was the priest of God Most High He met Abraham who was returning from winning a battle over some kings Melchizedek blessed him
You are doing what you have heard from your father
The Two Witnesses
God is true, even if every human being is a liar.
They will receive  times as much in this world. They will have homes and families and fields. But they will also be treated badly by others. In the world to come they will live forever.
And this life is found in his Son
Don’t you understand yet? Don’t you remember the five loaves for the ,? Don’t you remember how many baskets of pieces you gathered?
But many will speak against him
The God who gives peace will be with you.
The coming of the man of sin will fit how Satan works. The man of sin will show his power through all kinds of signs and wonders. These signs and wonders will lead people astray.
The men of Nineveh will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And the Ninevites will prove that these people are guilty. The men of Nineveh turned away from their sins when Jonah preached to them. And now something more important than Jonah is here.
After that, he got up from prayer and went back to the disciples. He found them sleeping. They were worn out because they were very sad.
After leaving them he went up on a mountainside to pray
You rich people, listen to me. Cry and weep, because you will soon be suffering.
God’s chosen people cry out to him day and night. Won’t he make things right for them? Will he keep putting them off?
Because I dont love you
Do we Jews have any advantage?
Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. “Couldn’t you men keep watch with me for one hour?” he asked Peter.
Be happy with your pay.”
But each one should build carefully
You are certainly giving thanks. But no one else is being built up.
I am telling you now before it happens When it does happen you will believe that I am who I am
And so we are formed into one body.
God promised I will return at the appointed time Sarah will have a son
They have spread their gifts around to poor people
I James am writing this letter I serve God and the Lord Jesus Christ
Follow me
After this letter has been read to you, send it on. Be sure that it is also read to the church in Laodicea.
In those days, people will look for a way to die but won’t find it.
The prayer offered by those who have faith will make the sick person well
You have been faithful and have put up with a lot of trouble because of me. You have not given up.
he will give you another friend to help you and to be with you forever
It never takes effect while the one who made it is still living
But you sin if you don’t treat everyone the same. The law judges you because you have broken it.
You were living in your sins and lawless ways. But in fact you were dead.
Whoever wants to follow me must say no to them
Didn’t the one who made the outside make the inside also?
God’s Children and Sin
Back off
Then your giving will be done secretly. Your Father will reward you, because he sees what you do secretly.
When the Lord judges us in this way he corrects us Then in the end we will not be judged along with the rest of the world
Now I want to deal with food sacrificed to statues of gods. We know that “We all have knowledge.”
Those who now rule have been chosen by God.
You have some strange ideas we’ve never heard before.
Some were held by chains.
Or are Barnabas and I the only ones who have to do other work for a living? Are we the only ones who can’t just do the work of apostles all the time?
But when anyone turns to the Lord the veil is taken away
The person who has the Spirit can judge all things. But no human being can judge those who have the Spirit. It is written,
This fellow Moses brought us up out of Egypt But we dont know what has happened to him
Who cares?
Many people who were disabled or who couldn’t walk were healed.
Epaphras sends greetings He is one of you He serves Christ Jesus He is always praying hard for you
Then the angel took the gold cup and filled it with fire from the altar He threw it down on the earth There were rumblings and thunder flashes of lightning and an earthquake
They talked to one another about it. They said, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will ask, ‘Then why didn’t you believe him?’
think about the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven
If you do what is right, you won’t need to be afraid of your rulers. But watch out if you do what is wrong!
They replied, “Believe in the Lord Jesus. Then you and everyone living in your house will be saved.”
The law is not based on faith In fact it is just the opposite
Brothers and sisters we want you to know about the hard times we had in Asia Minor
So let us come near to God with a sincere heart. Let us come near boldly because of our faith. Our hearts have been sprinkled. Our minds have been cleansed from a sense of guilt. Our bodies have been washed with pure water.
The city does not need the sun or moon to shine on it. God’s glory is its light, and the Lamb is its lamp.
In any case I havent caused you any expense But Im so tricky I have caught you by tricking you Or so you think Did I take advantage of you through any of the men I sent to you
But its more important when God is a witness
“Then he sent some more slaves. He said, ‘Tell those who were invited that I have prepared my dinner. I have killed my oxen and my fattest cattle. Everything is ready. Come to the wedding dinner.’
We are writing only what you can read and understand
But you are lukewarm. You aren’t hot or cold. So I am going to spit you out of my mouth.
His disciples were saying to him
You gave him authority over all people
But God warned them in a dream not to go back to Herod So they returned to their country on a different road
Get rid of sexual sins
impure acts
In the one case the tenth is collected by people who die But in the other case it is collected by the one who is said to be living
Is what these people are saying true he asked
Then he said, “Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.”
Then the Lord spoke to himYou Pharisees clean the outside of the cup
We also have the message of the prophets This message can be trusted completely
These facts can’t be questioned. So calm down. Don’t do anything foolish.
“What I’m about to tell you is true,” Jesus answered.
He will rule my people Israel like a shepherd
Can nakedness
His disciples later remembered what he had said. That was after he had been raised from the dead. Then they believed the Scripture. They also believed the words that Jesus had spoken.
By your words you will be found guilty or not guilty
You will be able to destroy all the power of the enemy.
There is no difference between those who are Jews and those who are not. The same Lord is Lord of all. He richly blesses everyone who calls on him.
Uzziah was the father of JothamJotham was the father of AhazAhaz was the father of Hezekiah
Simon and his friends went to look for Jesus
Some of Johns disciples and a certain Jew began to argue They argued about special washings to make people clean
Akeldama means the Field of Blood.
They came to ask Philip for a favor. Philip was from Bethsaida in Galilee. “Sir,” they said, “we would like to see Jesus.”
Its true that I also baptized those who live in the house of Stephanas Besides that I dont remember if I baptized anyone else
They walk around in the darkness
Peter turned around. He saw that the disciple Jesus loved was following them. He was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper. He had said, “Lord, who is going to hand you over to your enemies?”
No branch can bear fruit by itself.
As your faith continues to grow, I hope that my work among you will greatly increase.
The we found on the health station said Gebrei Yeezghiba  a kebele resident who said that while this study started to be serviced we are not getting full health care
What do we find in Scripture? It says, “Abraham believed God. God accepted Abraham’s faith, and so his faith made him right with God.”
So they went away by themselves in a boat to a quiet place
Then you should pray and God will give them life Im talking about someone whose sin does not lead to death
Do not work for food that spoils
“I returned to Jerusalem and was praying at the temple. Then it seemed to me that I was dreaming.
Sometimes people spoke badly about you in front of others Sometimes you were treated badly At other times you stood side by side with people being treated like this
Jesus spoke all these things to the crowd using stories. He did not say anything to them without telling a story.
The nations will put their hope in him.” (Isaiah :–)
Is everyone a prophet
When you join yourself to a prostitute you become one with her in body Dont you know this
Here are the beliefs and way of life that God our Father accepts as pure and without fault.
But dont think of them as an enemy
The unbelieving wife has been made holy through her believing husband
Its water dried up to prepare the way for the kings from the East.
But he didnt want to go right now He will go when he can
“It has been said, ‘Suppose a man divorces his wife. If he does, he must give her a letter of divorce.’
As long as your own children are young they are no different from slaves in your house They are no different even though they will own all the property
I broke my right leg.
He will send his angels He will gather his chosen people from all four directions He will bring them from the ends of the earth to the ends of the heavens
Since you are doing these things
But he did not sin.
Nahum was the son of Esli
Jesus had slipped away into the crowd that was there
Jesus told the crowd to sit down on the ground.
Five have fallen,
I already apologized
Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses In the same way the teachers Im talking about oppose the truth
They will rise first.
So they left. They found a colt out in the street. It was tied at a doorway. They untied it.
Esli was the son of Naggai.
What if someone leads one of these little ones who believe in me to sin If they do it would be better if a large millstone were hung around their neck and they were thrown into the sea
Some Pharisees and some teachers of the law came from Jerusalem to see Jesus
God gives life to everything Christ Jesus told the truth when he was a witness in front of Pontius Pilate In the sight of God and Christ I give you a command
Dear children keep away from statues of gods
Let us stop judging one another Instead decide not to put anything in the way of a brother or sister Dont put anything in their way that would make them trip and fall
Suppose someone claims to love God but hates a brother or sister Then they are a liar
Words of prophecy are written in this book Blessed is the person who obeys them
But in person he doesnt seem like much
We sent him so that no one would be upset by times of testing. You know very well that we have to go through times of testing.
Work because you know that you will finally receive as a reward what the Lord wants you to have You are slaves of the Lord Christ
Jesus loved his disciples who were in the world.
I owe  bushels of wheat he replied
But this is about your own law. It is a question of words and names. Settle the matter yourselves. I will not be a judge of such things.”
But you have received the Holy Spirit from God.
The people of the island saw the snake hanging from his hand. They said to one another, “This man must be a murderer.
You were taught to be made new in your thinking.
The other disciple ran faster than Peter He reached the tomb first
“Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God have come.
He also told him to allow Pauls friends to take care of his needs
The eleventh was made out of jacinth.
Why not say Lets do evil things so that good things will happen
On each head was an evil name that brought shame to God
With a loud cry, Jesus took his last breath.
In anything they do they must not go too far
Now I want to deal with food sacrificed to statues of gods We know that We all have knowledge But knowledge makes people proud while love builds them up
Then Pilate took Jesus and had him whipped.
His ears are open to their prayers
They are like wild animals who cant think
Then Philip began with that same part of Scripture.
To people who are pure all things are pure But to those who have twisted minds and dont believe nothing is pure In fact their minds and their sense of what is right and wrong are twisted
You work long and hard.
Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, left the Jordan River. The Spirit led him into the desert.
They brag about themselves
‘But you have a few people in Sardis who are pure.
No one can get rid of an official agreement between people. No one can add to it.
After Jesus drank he said, “It is finished.” Then he bowed his head and died.
The one who enters through the gate is the shepherd of the sheep
But Jesus often went away to be by himself and pray.
Jesus Appears to Thomas
Then where did this man get all these things?”
The Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus heard about this. They were all overcome with fear. They held the name of the Lord Jesus in high honor.
You are going through the same struggle you saw me go through. As you have heard, I am still struggling.
Jesus and his disciples arrived in Capernaum There the people who collect the temple tax came to Peter They asked him Doesnt your teacher pay the temple tax
But now he has promised Once more I will shake the earth I will also shake the heavens
Every day they met together in the temple courtyard
The words I spoke to you were like milk, not like solid food. You weren’t ready for solid food yet.
He made a promise to our father Abraham
Those who have served well earn the full respect of others They also become more sure of their faith in Christ Jesus
They will pick up snakes with their hands And when they drink deadly poison it will not hurt them at all They will place their hands on sick people And the people will get well
It is for all whom the Lord our God will choose
to set the created world free. He didn’t want it to rot away. Instead, God wanted it to have the same freedom and glory that his children have.
Abba Father he said everything is possible for you Take this cup of suffering away from me But let what you want be done not what I want
Those who were tending the pigs ran off. They told the people in the town and countryside what had happened. The people went out to see for themselves.
Each one of you is a part of it.
They  were ordinary men with no training This surprised the leaders
May the Lord is with your spirit
But their minds were made stubborn. To this day, the same veil remains when the old covenant is read.
The disciples were still talking about this when Jesus himself suddenly stood among them He said May you have peace
You too must be patient.
His disciples stared at one another. They had no idea which one of them he meant.
He wanted those who would receive what was promised to know this
We sailed in a ship from Alexandria that had stayed at the island during the winter.
They ordered Peter and John to leave the Sanhedrin. Then they talked things over.
Dear friend, don’t be like those who do evil. Be like those who do well. Anyone who does what is good belongs to God. Anyone who does what is evil hasn’t really seen or known God.
The sting of death is sin
But in fact Jesus was not baptizing His disciples were
But anyone who does not recognize this will not be recognized
When Jesus heard this, he said to him, “You are still missing one thing. Sell everything you have. Give the money to those who are poor. You will have treasure in heaven. Then come and follow me.”
After this Joseph sent for his father Jacob and his whole family The total number of people was
But this widow keeps bothering me So I will see that things are made right for her If I dont she will someday come and attack me
Pilate let Barabbas go free. But he had Jesus whipped. Then he handed him over to be nailed to a cross.
The mystery was not made known to people of other times. But now the Holy Spirit has made this mystery known to God’s holy apostles and prophets.
He also makes right with himself those who believe in Jesus
So God let them go He allowed them to do what their sinful hearts wanted to He let them commit sexual sins They made one anothers bodies impure by what they did
But he escaped from them
“The message is near you. It’s in your mouth and in your heart.”
I must become less important
He did this by taking on the nature of a servant
I was on the island of Patmos because I taught God’s word and what Jesus said.
Here is the letter the officer wrote
Greeks look for wisdom
Let all Gods angels worship him
That’s because you are all one in Christ Jesus.
In anything they do, they must not go too far.
Think about what I’m saying.
Paul went into the synagogue as he usually did. For three Sabbath days in a row he talked with the Jews about the Scriptures.
If he werent you couldnt do the signs you are doing
Be sure that no one misses out on Gods grace See to it that a bitter plant doesnt grow up If it does it will cause trouble And it will make many people impure
But there is someone coming after me. I am not good enough to untie his sandals.’
I do not call you slaves anymore.
He will bring me safely to his heavenly kingdom
And suppose he has ten thousennd men, while the other has twenty thousend coming against him. Won’t he first sit down and think about whether he can win?
Certainly not!
look inside
The same thing happened to a third of the night
The believers were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
One person considers one day to be more holy than another. Another person thinks all days are the same. Each of them should be absolutely sure in their own mind.
The Holy Spirit will make the offering holy
The law didn’t make anything perfect. Now a better hope has been given to us. That hope brings us near to God.
One person considers one day to be more holy than another
Simon Peter asked him, “Lord, where are you going?”
The sun turned black like the clothes people wear when they’re sad.
People like that are false apostles. They are workers who tell lies. They only pretend to be apostles of Christ.
When we are attacked, we put up with it.
I am joyful with all of you
They became powerful in battle.
A Roman commander was standing there in front of Jesus He saw how Jesus died Then he said This man was surely the Son of God
Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch There they and many others taught and preached the word of the Lord
But suppose the man has decided not to marry the virgin. And suppose he has no compelling need to get married and can control him. If he has made up his mind not to get married, he also does the right thing.
“Anyone who welcomes one of these little children in my name welcomes me. And anyone who welcomes me also welcomes the one who sent me.”
The wall of the city had tewelve foundations
The coming of the man of sin will fit how Satan works
“We find nothing wrong with this man,” they said.
The Mighty One has done great things for me.
Dionysius was one of them. He was a member of the Areopagus. A woman named Damaris also became a believer. And so did some others.
Do not lose hope when he corrects you
Our dear brother Paul also wrote to you about this God made him wise to write as he did
But here is what you must understand. Suppose the owner of the house knew at what hour the robber was coming. He would not have let his house be broken into.
The eternal King will never die. He can’t be seen. He is the only God. Give him honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
He has given us the power to serve under a new covenant.
It is written, “The one who boasts should boast about what the Lord has done.”
None of the rulers of this world understood Gods wisdom
There will be terrible suffering in those days It will be worse than any other from the beginning of the world until now And there will never be anything like it again
Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life.
Last of all he also appeared to me I was like someone who wasnt born at the right time
They also started to argue. They disagreed about which of them was thought to be the most important person.
But the man who had been blind kept saying, “I am the man.”
The Story of the Wedding Dinner
Abraham had faith So he obeyed God God called him to go to a place he would later receive as his own So he went He did it even though he didnt know where he was going
Brothers and sisters, pray for us.
They kept looking for Jesus as they stood in the temple courtyard. They asked one another, “What do you think?
I havent longed for anyones silver or gold or clothing
The city was laid out like a square. It was as long as it was wide.
When they circumcise it is nothing more than a useless cutting of the body
Wont that person become bold and eat what is sacrificed to statues of gods
Jesus and his disciples went on their way. Jesus came to a village where a woman named Martha lived. She welcomed him into her home.
This is the covenant I will establish with the people of Israel
God removed him and made David their king.
“The kingdom of heaven is like treasure that was hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again. He was very happy. So he went and sold everything he had. And he bought that field.
‘Are you the one who is supposed to come?
Then out of his mouth the serpent spit water like a river. He wanted to catch the woman and sweep her away in the flood.
He will lead them to springs of living water.
People thought she could not have children
They will fool others and others will fool them
That is how it will be for whoever stores things away for themselves but is not rich in the sight of God
Ill miss you so much
Here is what is written in the Law of Moses. “Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw.”
You did not choose me. Instead, I chose you. I appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit that will last. I also appointed you so that the Father will give you what you ask for. He will give you whatever you ask for in my name.
He said that the Messiah would not be left in the place of the dead
In the same way, rich people will fade away.
Run away from all these things.
Who has kept you from obeying the truth?
So love does everything the law requires
The Jews who killed the Lord Jesus.
God spoke to some people and called them ‘gods.’
This is good and it pleases God our Savior
Let the person who does wrong keep on doing wrong.
God will judge those outside
Later Jesus found him at the temple Jesus said to him See you are well again
There is one more thing. Have a guest room ready for me. I hope I can return to all of you in answer to your prayers.
Today I am on trial because of the hope I have I believe in what God promised our people of long ago
The Jewish leaders replied, “We have a law. That law says he must die. He claimed to be the Son of God.”
Value others more than yourselves
They do this by teaching things they shouldn’t. They do these things to cheat people.
There are more important things for the body than clothes
Let us act as we should, like people living in the daytime. Have nothing to do with wild parties, and don’t get drunk. Don’t take part in sexual sins or evil conduct. Don’t fight with each other or be jealous of anyone.
About tewelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship
Now you should forgive him and comfort him. Then he won’t be sad more than he can stand.
Thats because we obey his commands
Christ is the living Stone
I will strike her children dead Then all the churches will know that I search hearts and minds I will pay each of you back for what you have done
Its riders name was Death Following close behind him was Hell
You know that I suffered greatly
Thats because they worshiped the Lord and the Holy Spirit helped them
Who can know the thoughts of another person Only a persons own spirit can know them In the same way only the Spirit of God knows Gods thoughts
He scattered the coins of the people exchanging money.
Give glory to God for ever and ever. Amen.
This life has appeared
It is fine to be committed to something, if the purpose is good.
And the God who gives love and peace will be with you.
The God who gives peace will soon crush Satan under your feet
How about a sandwich?
Don’t let anyone look down on you because you are young. Set an example for the believers in what you say and in how you live. Also set an example in how you love and in what you believe. Show the believers how to be pure.
Dont harm yourself Paul shouted We are all here
Slaves
Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father
Fight the good fight along with all other believers Take hold of eternal life You were chosen for it when you openly told others what you believe Many witnesses heard you
But another person eats only vegetables because their faith is weak.
But they didnt understand what he meant And they were afraid to ask him about it
Jews require signs.
They said Prophesy to us Messiah Who hit you
But I won’t brag more than I should. God himself has given me an opportunity for serving.
He will receive a lighter beating. Much will be required of everyone who has been given much
He sent his angel to show his servants the things that must soon take place.”
You are all these things so that you can give him praise.
So Judas threw the money into the temple and left Then he went away and hanged himself
Jesus was driving out a demon. The man who had the demon could not speak. When the demon left, the man began to speak. The crowd was amazed.
But the believers wouldnt let him
He says, “People from Crete are always liars. They are evil beasts. They don’t want to work. They live only to eat.”
He sighed deeply. He said, “Why do you people ask for a sign? What I’m about to tell you is true. No sign will be given to you.”
Later Joseph asked Pilate for Jesus’ body. Joseph was from the town of Arimathea. He was a follower of Jesus. But he followed Jesus secretly because he was afraid of the Jewish leaders. After Pilate gave him permission, Joseph came and took the body away.
So they cut the anchors loose and left them in the sea.
I was very troubled when I wrote to you. My heart was sad. My eyes were full of tears. I didn’t want to make you sad. I wanted to let you know that I love you very deeply.
“People don’t sew a patch of new cloth on old clothes. The new piece will pull away from the old. That will make the tear worse.
It speaks to you as a father to his children. It says,
A man named Ananias came to see me He was a godly Jew who obeyed the law All the Jews living there respected him very much
He came and preached peace to you who were far away He also preached peace to those who were near
So be sure of this all you people of Israel You nailed Jesus to the cross But God has made him both Lord and Messiah
We will take your many gifts to the people who need them And they will give thanks to God
Like newborn babies you should long for the pure milk of Gods word It will help you grow up as believers
In a way he did receive Isaac back from death
Thats because of the kind of people we all were
God has raised this same Jesus back to life. We are all witnesses of this.
I won't see her again.
That is only right, because your faith is growing more and more.
He is the go-between for the new covenant.
But you know him He lives with you and he will be in you
“Make level paths for your feet to walk on.” Then those who have trouble walking won’t be disabled. Instead, they will be healed.
I have done this so that in all possible ways I might save some
They will see his face. His name will be on their foreheads.
I have come so they may have life I want them to have it in the fullest possible way
The crowd listened to Paul until he said this. Then they shouted, “Kill him! He isn’t fit to live!”
I know that the Lord is always with me
Brothers and sisters in all our trouble and suffering your faith encouraged us
I want you to be free to live in a way that is right I want you to give yourselves completely to the Lord
Even the officer was alarmed He realized that he had put Paul a Roman citizen in chains
Masters, treat your slaves in the same way. When you warn them, don’t be too hard on them. You know that the God who is their Master and yours is in heaven. And he treats everyone the same.
I really like to read
So they carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
But I might stay with you for a while. I might even spend the winter.
You began by the Holy Spirit Are you now trying to finish Gods work in you by your own strength
They rowed about three or four miles. Then they saw Jesus coming toward the boat. He was walking on the water. They were frightened.
They must pick up their cross every day and follow me.
Around the throne was a rainbow shining like an emerald.
“The kingdom of heaven is like a man who owned land. He went out early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard.
Some Pharisees came to test Jesus They asked Does the Law allow a man to divorce his wife
Then I went to Syria and Cilicia
He explained and proved that the Messiah had to suffer and rise from the dead. “This Jesus I am telling you about is the Messiah!” he said.
They replied It has taken fourty six years to build this temple
Your gold and silver have lost their brightness Their dullness will be a witness against you Your wanting more and more will eat your body like fire You have stored up riches in these last days
A good tree doesnt bear bad fruit
Then I said, ‘Here I am.
He also became more and more pleasing to God and to people
We will take your many gifts to the people who need them. And they will give thanks to God.
Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?’
The Lord stood at my side He gave me the strength to preach the whole message
David spoke about him. He said,
The message of the cross seems foolish to those who are lost and dying But it is Gods power to us who are being saved
After we had torn ourselves away from the Ephesian elders, we headed out to sea. We sailed straight to Kos. The next day we went to Rhodes. From there we continued on to Patara.
John also spoke strongly to Herod about all the other evil things he had done
Then the two of them told what had happened to them on the way. They told how they had recognized Jesus when he broke the bread.
The believers from Italy send you their greetings
When they arrived, they went upstairs to the room where they were staying. Here is a list of those who were there.
We played the flute for youBut you didnt dance
Those who have the same faith that Abraham had are also included.
But they spread the word only among Jews.
“Here is a problem that you have to be wise to understand. The seven heads are seven hills that the woman sits on.
It is time for judgment to begin with the household of God And since it begins with us what will happen to people who dont obey Gods good news
Speaking in languages that had not been known before will end.
I am very happy.
Now the Lord’s hand is against you. You are going to go blind. For a while you won’t even be able to see the light of the sun.”
I noticed a pattern
It is for those who kill their fathers or mothers It is for murderers
They told no lies. They are without blame.
I never liked biology.
Then the angel said to him, “Put on your clothes and sandals.” Peter did so.
Not said።
They recognized him as the same man who used to sit and beg at the temple gate called Beautiful
Have respect for God Give him glory
He said to his disciples, “Why are you so afraid? Don’t you have any faith at all yet?”
You heard it from us But you didnt accept it as a human word
Instead we make it clear that we serve God in every way We serve him by standing firm in troubles hard times and suffering
They will be burned with flaming sulfur. The holy angels and the Lamb will see it happen.
Be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees
The wise ones took oil in jars along with their lamps.
Greet those who live in the house of Aristobulus.
They invited us to spend a week with them.
A persons body without their spirit is dead In the same way faith without good deeds is dead
At that time the disciples came to Jesus. They asked him, “Then who is the most important person in the kingdom of heaven?”
Some teachers of the law who were Pharisees were there. They saw Jesus eating with sinners and tax collectors.
Jesus answered, “What I’m about to tell you is true.
Look I am coming soon
One of the high priest’s slaves was a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off. He said to Peter, “Didn’t I see you with Jesus in the garden?”
Not at all! As far as sin is concerned, we are dead. So how can we keep on sinning?
All these things should describe you more and more They will make you useful
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me. The bowls were filled with the seven last plagues. The angel said, “Come. I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”
But they asked Pilate to have him killed.
The secret power of sin is already at work. But the one who now holds back that power will keep doing it until he is taken out of the way.
He sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked on and on. Sound asleep, Eutychus fell from the third floor.
Your brother or sister may be upset by what you eat. If they are, you are no longer acting as though you love them. So don’t destroy them by what you eat. Remember that Christ died for them.
So I will send you away from your country
Because of what God has done you belong to Christ Jesus
Tell the older men that in anything they do, they must not go too far. They must be worthy of respect. They must control themselves. They must have true faith. They must love others. They must not give up.
Jesus was approaching Jericho. A blind man was sitting by the side of the road begging.
If any of you needs wisdom you should ask God for it He will give it to you
The time came for Elizabeth to have her baby. She gave birth to a son.
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it. But whoever loses their life for me will find it.
God gives freely to everyone and doesn’t find fault.
Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives across from the temple Peter James John and Andrew asked him a question in private
A holy tent was set up
When they saw him, they worshiped him.
You will be my sons and daughters,
Then God’s temple in heaven was opened. Inside it the wooden chest called the ark of his covenant could be seen. There were flashes of lightning, rumblings and thunder, an earthquake and a severe hailstorm.
I'll pay.
Then we would lead godly lives His wounds have healed you
Those other people are the ones he shows his mercy to He made them to receive his glory
So get rid of every kind of evil
Their hair was like womens hair
This life has appeared We have seen him We are witnesses about him And we announce to you this same eternal life He was already with the Father He has appeared to us
Then a great star fell from the sky.
Jesus answered, “Haven’t you read about what David did? He and his men were hungry.
Have your sins washed away
In your heart you are not sorry for your sins You are storing up anger against yourself The day of Gods anger is coming Then his way of judging fairly will be shown
He did it to make her holy. He made her clean by washing her with water and the word.
It was planned that way by the one who held it back. God planned
In those days Caesar Augustus made a law It required that a list be made of everyone in the whole Roman world
Or suppose they think they have other gifts given by the Holy Spirit
I'm doing my homework
Their hearts were glad and sincere
“‘The Lord said to my Lord,
Peter went down and spoke to the men Im the one youre looking for
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace.
If you worship me, it will all be yours.”
The Angel and the Little Scroll
Call me
They can’t understand the truth. They are separated from the life of God. That’s because they don’t know him.
We told you about the time our Lord Jesus Christ came with power. But we didn’t make up clever stories when we told you about it. With our own eyes we saw him in all his majesty.
Make the most of every opportunity The days are evil So dont be foolish Instead understand what the Lord wants
You will receive many blessings in heaven.
But each believer should live in whatever situation the Lord has given them. Stay as you were when God chose you. That’s the rule all the churches must follow.
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit. They began to speak in languages they had not known before. The Spirit gave them the ability to do this.
The whole city was stirred up
But the Pharisees believe all these things.
You say I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebul.
“Jacob’s sons were jealous of their brother Joseph. So they sold him as a slave. He was taken to Egypt.
I Paul am writing this greeting with my own hand
The Lord judges me
Jesus heard what they were saying. He told the synagogue leader, “Don’t be afraid. Just believe.”
In fact, he almost died.
I have many people in this city.”
The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city.
And blessed is the child you will have!
In the same way, let your light shine so others can see it. Then they will see the good things you do. And they will bring glory to your Father who is in heaven.
So Paul and Barnabas spent a lot of time there. They spoke boldly for the Lord.
With authority and power he gives orders to evil spirits.
I will say it again.
Children, obey your parents as believers in the Lord. Obey them because it’s the right thing to do.
all who travel by ship will stand far away
And the Judge is standing at the door
It is written, “Everyone who is hung on a pole is under God’s curse.”
I want you to understand It will keep you from being proud
Godly Jews buried Stephen.
I have a duty both to Greeks and to non-Greeks I have a duty both to wise people and to foolish people
But they kept it up They said His teaching stirs up the people all over Judea He started in Galilee and has come all the way here
What Im about to tell you is true Jesus said to them Has anyone left home or wife or husband or brothers or sisters or parents or children for Gods kingdom
The dark night of evil is nearly over. The day of Christ’s return is almost here. So let us get rid of the works of darkness that harm us. Let us do the works of light that protect us.
What I’m about to tell you is true. Anyone who will not receive God’s kingdom like a little child will never enter it.”
Here is the law I find working in me When I want to do good evil is right there with me
So is the law opposed to God’s promises?
Blind people and those who were disabled came to Jesus at the temple. There he healed them.
Paul’s Trial in Front of Felix
But what about you he asked Who do you say I am
There were three gates on the east and three on the north. There were three gates on the south and three on the west.
Paul stayed in Corinth for some time. Then he left the brothers and sisters and sailed for Syria. Priscilla and Aquila went with him. Before he sailed, he had his hair cut off at Cenchreae. He did this because he had made a promise to God.
Then you will not take part in her sins.
Cornelius Calls for Peter
Coming out of the rider’s mouth is a sharp sword. He will strike down the nations with the sword. Scripture says, “He will rule them with an iron scepter.”  He stomps on the grapes of God’s winepress. The winepress stands for the terrible anger of the God who rules over all.
Timothy Joins Paul and Silas
A jar of wine vinegar was there So they soaked a sponge in it
Why is my freedom being judged by what someone else thinks
But God turned away from them. He let them go on worshiping the sun, moon and stars. This agrees with what is written in the book of the prophets. There it says,
Was it after Abraham was circumcised, or before?
You have hidden these things from wise and educated people. But you have shown them to little children.
David was blessed by God. So David asked if he could build a house for the God of Jacob.
I do not accept what a person says I only talk about what John says so that you can be saved
One like this hasnt happened while human beings have lived on earth
Jesus replied, “You don’t realize now what I am doing. But later you will understand.”
What if he put up with them to show the riches of his glory to other people?
There are different ways to serve. But they all come from the same Lord.
He said to them, “Go into all the world. Preach the good news to everyone.
The Law and Sin
That evening after sunset the people brought to Jesus all who were sick They also brought all who were controlled by demons
But you have a practice at Passover time. At that time, you ask me to set one prisoner free for you. Do you want me to set ‘the king of the Jews’ free?”
Anyone who doesnt do what is right isnt Gods child
and gentle and having control of oneself. There is no law against things of that kind.
They will refuse to bury them
Its rider was given power to take peace from the earth
The apostles returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives. It is just over half a mile from the city.
So he let them go without paying Which of them will love him more
This was because Jesus had said to him Come out of this man you evil spirit
‘Never again will they be hungry.
And because I am a prisoner, most of the believers have become bolder in the Lord. They now dare even more to preach the good news without fear.
whose sins are taken away.
He must control himself.
“Do not think I have come to get rid of what is written in the Law or in the Prophets. I have not come to do this. Instead, I have come to fulfill what is written.
The plagues would complete Gods anger
You have heard how I lived earlier in my Jewish way of life With all my strength I attacked the church of God I tried to destroy it
They must not steal from them Instead they must show that they can be trusted completely
‘He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death.’  And there will be no more sadness. There will be no more crying or pain. Things are no longer the way they used to be.”
The officers arrived at the jail. But they didn’t find the apostles there. So they went back and reported it.
What did he mean when he said, ‘You will look for me, but you won’t find me’? And what did he mean when he said, ‘You can’t come where I am going’?”
But you do not believe, because you are not my sheep.
Then he said to Thomas, “Put your finger here.
Throw Out the Evil Person
At the feast the Jewish leaders were watching for Jesus.
I myself did not know him.
To show mercy is better than to judge.
They should ask the elders to anoint them with olive oil in the name of the Lord.
While Jesus was still speaking, someone came from the house of Jairus. Jairus was the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” the messenger said. “Don’t bother the teacher anymore.”
Correct them with full authority
I love you because of the truth that is alive in us. This truth will be with us forever.
Now the Lord is the Holy Spirit And where the Spirit of the Lord is freedom is also there
No one can question the truth So teach what is true Then those who oppose you will be ashamed Thats because they will have nothing bad to say about us
There will be no more night
Christ is pure. All who hope to be like him make themselves pure.
we know that you are a teacher who has come from God We know that God is with you
But God comforts those who are sad He comforted us when Titus came
The good news was announced to our people of long ago. It has also been preached to us.
But suppose you do suffer for doing what is right. Even then you will be blessed. Scripture says, “Don’t fear what others say they will do to hurt you. Don’t be afraid.”
We know that the law is holy. But I am not. I have been sold to be a slave of sin.
They will be destroyed forever They will be shut out of heaven They will never see the glory of the Lords strength
I am already being poured out like a drink offering. The time when I will leave is near.
But what if they also refuse to listen to the witnesses? Then tell it to the church. And what if they refuse to listen even to the church? Then don’t treat them as a brother or sister. Treat them as you would treat an ungodly person or a tax collector.
Honor and power belong to him forever.
May Onesiphorus find mercy from the Lord on the day Jesus returns as judge You know very well how many ways Onesiphorus helped me in Ephesus
The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph They saw the tomb and how Jesus body was placed in it
Jesus left the synagogue and went to the home of Simon
But when Herod heard this he said I had Johns head cut off And now he has been raised from the dead
He was in a hurry to get to Jerusalem. If he could, he wanted to be there by the day of Pentecost.
Liang Sh  has taken many challenges to fulfill his dream of attending university since he was just  years old።
I have finished the race.
You dont even know what will happen tomorrow
So they threw him out of the vineyard And they killed him
As Jesus was saying these things a woman in the crowd called out
Brothers and sisters, suppose I were to come to you and speak in other languages. What good would I be to you?
I will give water to anyone who is thirsty
The last group acts out of love They know I have been put here to be a witness for the good news
But you are so wise in Christ!
They were things that no one is allowed to talk about.
The friend who helps the groom waits and listens for him.
But in front of all of them Peter said he was not I dont know what youre talking about he said
Caesars they replied
Jesus heard this So he said Those who are healthy dont need a doctor Sick people do
After we had torn ourselves away from the Ephesian elders, we headed out to sea.
He told us how much you longed for me. He told us about your deep sadness and concern for me.
One was Mary Magdalene. Seven demons had come out of her.
“For the last fourteen days,” he said, you have wondered what would happen. You have gone without food. You haven’t eaten anything.
Most of them are still living
We lived that way most of all when we were dealing with you
He is held back so that he can make his appearance at the right time.
He leads the whole world astray.
I know what Im going to do Ill do something so that when I lose my job here people will welcome me into their houses
Don’t have anything to do with arguing. It is dumb and foolish. You know it only leads to fights.
There were seven brothers among us The first one got married and died Since he had no children he left his wife to his brother
He lived there in tents So did Isaac and Jacob They received the same promise he did
But the commandment gave sin an opportunity Sin caused me to want all kinds of things that belong to others
We hope for what we don’t have yet. So we are patient as we wait for it.
I was away for several years Then I came to Jerusalem to bring my people gifts for those who were poor I also came to offer sacrifices
How many loaves do you have Jesus asked
They will make fun of him and spit on him They will whip him and kill him Three days later he will rise from the dead
On the day I saved you, I helped you.”
The slave’s name was Malchus.
Judas bought a field with the payment he received for the evil thing he had done.
They were amazed at his teaching, because his words had authority.
You want something,
Do you want me to set the king of the Jews free
They serve at a sacred tent.
And he will give us anything we ask. That’s because we obey his commands. We do what pleases him.
Or what can anyone trade for their soul
They are pleasing to people too.
He knows his time is short
“When you enter a house, first say, ‘May this house be blessed with peace.’
Then Jesus said, “Didn’t I tell you that if you believe,
They will break them to pieces like clay pots.”
Jesus was coming up out of the water Just then he saw heaven being torn open Jesus saw the Holy Spirit coming down on him like a dove
Here’s how we know that we hold to the truth. And here’s how we put our hearts at rest, knowing that God is watching.
Mr Aqenau Wolde is a resident of the city of Tsitsqa።
You have seen these things with your own eyes
Every time you drink it, do it in memory of me.”
He brought it back on a big plate. He gave it to the girl, and she gave it to her mother.
I thought things like that were really something great But now I consider them to be nothing because of Christ
God began a good work in you And I am sure that he will carry it on until it is completed That will be on the day Christ Jesus returns
The apostles in Jerusalem heard that people in Samaria had accepted God’s word. So they sent Peter and John to Samaria.
People don’t pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst. The wine will run out, and the wineskins will be destroyed. No, people pour new wine into new wineskins. Then both are saved.”
I can help you too
you made the heavens the earth and the sea You made everything in them
You dont even know what will happen tomorrow What is your life It is a mist that appears for a little while Then it disappears
Didn’t the land belong to you before it was sold? After it was sold, you could have used the money as you wished. What made you think of doing such a thing? You haven’t lied just to people. You’ve also lied to God.”
A man should not cover his head. He is the likeness and glory of God.
He was not harmed
When the Lord judges us in this way, he corrects us. Then in the end we will not be judged along with the rest of the world.
‘We wipe from our feet even the dust of your town.
It is a rock that makes them fall
Jesus Teaches Nicodemus
“‘No,’ they replied. ‘There may not be enough for all of us. Instead, go to those who sell oil. Buy some for yourselves.’
Jesus answered You were given power from heaven If you werent you would have no power over me
Im not the only one who loves you So does everyone who knows the truth
if someone else comes in his own name you will accept him
At that time each person will receive their praise from God.
They are worse than someone who doesnt believe
Very early on the first day of the week they were on their way to the tomb It was just after sunrise
Is anyone among you wise and
That’s because we obey his commands.
Then the devil led Jesus to Jerusalem He had Jesus stand on the highest point of the temple If you are the Son of God he said throw yourself down from here
They brought him into court
“You will weep and grind your teeth together when you see those who are in God’s kingdom. You will see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets there. But you yourselves will be thrown out.
Jesus was driving out a demon. The man who had the demon could not speak.
Let everyone know how gentle you are
Peter said All the others may turn away But I will not
That same day Jesus left the house and sat by the Sea of Galilee.
Some Pharisees and some teachers of the law came from Jerusalem to see Jesus.
God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong
They were planning to hide and attack Paul along the way They wanted to kill him
I dont even judge myself
The seed that fell on rocky places is like other people They hear the message and at once receive it with joy
Here is what I have been saying As long as your own children are young they are no different from slaves in your house They are no different even though they will own all the property
Then they will pay no attention to Jewish stories that arent true They wont listen to the mere human commands of people who turn away from the truth
There he stayed for three months. He was just about to sail for Syria. But some Jews were making plans against him. So he decided to go back through Macedonia.
But he is kind to you So you must continue to live in his kindness
When we bring them to God we want them to be like Christ
It produces a crop that is useful to those who farm the land That land receives Gods blessing
So then here is what I say about eating food sacrificed to statues of gods
They were afraid we would crash against the rocks. So they dropped four anchors from the back of the ship.
But I will not be controlled by anything
“You have heard that it was said, ‘Love your neighbor.  Hate your enemy.’
So everything will be destroyed in this way And what kind of people should you be You should lead holy and godly lives
Or at least believe what the works I have been doing say about me.
‘I won’t ask the rest of you in Thyatira to do anything else. You haven’t learned what some people call Satan’s deep secrets.
And my judging is fair. I do not try to please myself.
He went a little farther Then he fell to the ground He prayed that if possible the hour might pass by him
Some who are standing here will not die before they see God’s kingdom.”
Always be joyful.
I Paul am writing this letter I am an apostle of Christ Jesus just as God our Savior commanded
When the Wise Men had left, Joseph had a dream. In the dream an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph. “Get up!” the angel said. “Take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt. Stay there until I tell you to come back. Herod is going to search for the child. He wants to kill him.”
because those people have a weak sense of what is right and wrong, they feel guilty.
I talked to friends.
“You stand there”? Or
They will have that light They will have life
As it is, there are many parts.
So one mans sin brought guilt to all people
My heart is full of sorrow. My sadness never ends.
Neri was the son of Melki.
I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of God’s holy people. They are the ones who are witnesses about Jesus.
The seventh angel blew his trumpet There were loud voices in heaven
You know that I was treated badly.
“My Father has given all things to me. The Father is the only one who knows who the Son is. And the only ones who know the Father are the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to make the Father known.”
It is written I have made you a father of many nations  God considers Abraham to be our father The God that Abraham believed in gives life to the dead Abrahams God also creates things that did not exist before
The next day Moses saw two Israelites fighting. He tried to make peace between them. ‘Men, you are both Israelites,’ he said. ‘Why do you want to hurt each other?’
We brag about your faith in all the suffering and testing you are going through.
You were chosen to do good even if you suffer. That’s because Christ suffered for you. He left you an example that he expects you to follow.
Others do know Gods law when they sin They will be judged by the law
There Are Only a Few Workers
Instead, the Spirit gives us power and love.
Five days later Ananias the high priest went down to Caesarea. Some elders and a lawyer named Tertullus went with him. They brought their charges against Paul to the governor.
Read this.
I took the little scroll from the angel’s hand and ate it. In my mouth it tasted as sweet as honey. But when I had eaten it, it became sour in my stomach.
Then he appeared to the twelve apostles.
A name is written on him that only he knows
They replied Let one of us sit at your right hand in your glorious kingdom Let the other one sit at your left hand
But you do have this in your favor You hate the way the Nicolaitans act I hate it too
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins
But we preach about Christ and his death on the cross.
He said to them But now if you have a purse take it And also take a bag If you dont have a sword sell your coat and buy one
The official said to Philip, “Tell me, please.
They studied the Scriptures carefully every day. They wanted to see if what Paul said was true. So they were nobler than the Thessalonian Jews.
He began to speak boldly in the synagogue.
He wanted to make us pure. He wanted us to be his very own people. He wanted us to desire to do what is good.
He had a hungry look.
Paul entered the synagogue. There he spoke boldly for three months.
Then he began to think clearly again He said How many of my fathers hired servants have more than enough food But here I am dying from hunger
By his promise the Son was appointed. The Son has been made perfect forever.
So they do not need to honor their father or mother with their gift You make the word of God useless in order to follow your own teachings
He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and swim to land.
How lovely
I need a lot of books
Even though I am nothing I am in no way less important than the super-apostles
“You stubborn people! You won’t obey! You won’t listen! You are just like your people of long ago!
The Queen of the South will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And she will prove that they are guilty. She came from very far away to listen to Solomon’s wisdom. And now something more important than Solomon is here.
He is troubled because you heard he was sick
Hold this
And you say If we had lived in the days of those who lived before us we wouldnt have done what they did We wouldnt have helped to kill the prophets
Love must be honest and true Hate what is evil Hold on to what is good
Some people claim they are Jews but are not. They are liars. Their worship comes from Satan. I will make them come and fall down at your feet. I will make them say in public that I have loved you.
Peter replied All of you must turn away from your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ Then your sins will be forgiven
Dont have anything to do with godless stories and silly tales
But no one accepts what he says.
The Son of Man will go to his death, just as God has already decided. But how terrible it will be for the one who hands him over!”
Let their eyes grow dark so they can’t see.
So the man sent another servant to the renters They hit this one on the head and treated him badly
Jesus replied They are plants that my Father in heaven has not planted They will be pulled up by the roots
If a family is divided it cant stand
Instead be joyful that you are taking part in Christs sufferings Then you will have even more joy when Christ returns in glory
Then you will be able to see clearly to take the bit of sawdust out of your friend’s eye.
But to those who have twisted minds and don’t believe, nothing is pure.
So Philip started out
So the Pharisees also asked him how he was able to see
Their foolish hearts became dark.
Who is going to hurt you if you really want to do good
All of them ate and were satisfied The disciples picked up  baskets of leftover pieces
This official had gone to Jerusalem to worship
We had trouble getting to Cnidus The wind did not let us stay on course So we passed the calmer side of Crete opposite Salmone
Once you had not received mercy.
It flowed down the middle of the city’s main street. On each side of the river stood the tree of life, bearing  crops of fruit. Its fruit was ripe every month. The leaves of the tree bring healing to the nations.
If you dont you have believed it for nothing
Send it to the seven churches in Asia Minor.
It was the night before Herod was going to bring him to trial. Peter was sleeping between two soldiers.
Some believers came to me and told me that you are faithful to the truth They told me that you continue to live by it This news gave me great joy
It is a rock that makes them fall.”
It is not that I want your gifts What I really want is what is best for you
My dear friends, you have always obeyed God. You obeyed while I was with you. And you have obeyed even more while I am not with you. So continue to work out your own salvation. Do it with fear and trembling.
But God knows your hearts. What people think is worth a lot is hated by God.
The Lion of the tribe of Judah has won the battle.
While he was blessing them he left them He was taken up into heaven
Every island ran away. The mountains could not be found.
A husband should satisfy his wife’s needs. And a wife should satisfy her husband’s needs.
They deal only with food and drink and different kinds of special washings
Even angels long to look into these things
Because of what Jesus said a false report spread among the believers The story was told that the disciple Jesus loved wouldnt die
Joseph had faith So he spoke to the people of Israel about how they would leave Egypt someday
Think about the people of Israel.
Again he asked What can I compare Gods kingdom to
I left Trophimus sick in Miletus.
Thats why I have often been kept from coming to you
“You stubborn people! You won’t obey! You won’t listen! You are just like your people of long ago! You always oppose the Holy Spirit!
Cry and
But because Christ died, God has brought you back to himself. Christ’s death has made you holy in God’s sight. So now you don’t have any flaw. You are free from blame.
Dont let anyone fool you Bad companions make a good person bad
Jesus took a little child and had the child stand among them Then he took the child in his arms He said to them
I give them eternal life and they will never die
Then I washed
Before I knew about the law I was alive
Stand up
I know Abrham.
Blessed are those who show mercy
We said goodbye to each other Then we went on board the ship
his spirit became strong.
Your bragging is not good. It is like yeast.
No prophecy in Scripture ever came from a prophet’s own understanding of things.
I will reward each person for what they have done.
The men grabbed Jesus and arrested him
The one in authority serves God for your good.
You were like sheep wandering away
We don’t need to write to you about your love for one another.
Everyone became quiet as they listened to Barnabas and Paul They were telling about the signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles
Jannai was the son of Joseph.
you know
So we will all have to explain to God the things we have done
A man named Joseph was a member of the Jewish Council He was a good and honest man
Jesus had performed so many signs in front of them. But they still would not believe in him.
The dead man sat up and began to talk.
The commander said it was true So Pilate gave the body to Joseph
Without a doubt the more important person blesses the less important one
And Josiah was the father of Jeconiah and his brothers. At that time, the Jewish people were forced to go away to Babylon.
God showed that there is no difference between us and them. That’s because he made their hearts pure because of their faith.
I forgot.
Nation will fight against nation Kingdom will fight against kingdom People will go hungry There will be earthquakes in many places
After that, Christ went and made an announcement to the spirits in prison.
Jesus said, “What I’m about to tell you is true. You need to change and become like little children. If you don’t, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Get down
He is the exact likeness of God’s being.
The sun and stars didnt appear for many days The storm was terrible So we gave up all hope of being saved
I am Jesus of Nazareth he replied I am the one you are opposing
A Treasure in Clay Jars
I often eat chicken.
And God is carrying out his anger through them. The ruler punishes anyone who does wrong.
The men who lived there recognized Jesus. So they sent a message all over the nearby countryside. People brought all those who were sick to Jesus.
The one who fears does not have perfect love
More than fourty men took part in this plan.
God did not spare angels when they sinned Instead he sent them to hell He chained them up in dark prisons He will keep them there until he judges them
That night they didnt catch anything
Worship God! The Spirit of prophecy tells the truth about Jesus.”
but you dont have it
The Gentiles must be circumcised They must obey the law of Moses
Those who lived through it were terrified.
This bread is my body. I will give it for the life of the world.”
Thats why a woman should have authority over her own head She should have this because of the angels
Solid food is for those who are grown up. They have trained themselves to tell the difference between good and evil. That shows they have grown up.
now it has been made known to the Lords people
I do good deeds
When Peter came into the house Jesus spoke first What do you think Simon he asked Who do the kings of the earth collect taxes and fees from Do they collect them from their own children or from others
The Lord does things that have been known from long ago
This is the very reason I have come to this point in my life.
God promised that those people would never enjoy the rest he planned for them. God gave his word when he made that promise. Didn’t he make that promise to those who didn’t obey?
listen to me.
When we came to Macedonia, we weren’t able to rest. We were attacked no matter where we went. We had battles on the outside and fears on the inside.
Rest for All Who Are Tired
They could not find a way to do this because of the crowd
Everything we said to you was true.
Her mother told her what to say. So the girl said to Herod, “Give me the head of John the Baptist on a big plate.”
and what will happen later
Some people say they are Jews but are not. I know that their words are evil.
Christ set us free from the curse of the law. He did it by becoming a curse for us.
It is from me, not a direct command from the Lord.
But God trains us for our good He does this so we may share in his holiness
You have taken with you the star of your false god Rephan.
When a man found it he hid it againHe was very happy
Then you and everyone living in your house will be saved
Be willing to be a friend of people who arent considered important
Your gifts also cause many people to thank God.
I want to say something about our brother Apollos. I tried my best to get him to go to you with the others. But he didn’t want to go right now. He will go when he can.
Then he brought them out. He asked, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?”
So he had to be made like people, fully human in every way.
The seventh angel blew his trumpet There were loud voices in heaven They said
Others have the right to receive help from you. Don’t we have even more right to do so?
No widow should be put on the list of widows unless she is more than  years old. She must also have been faithful to her husband.
None of our people here from Judea has reported or said anything bad about you.
Your bragging is not good It is like yeast
I Jesus have sent my angel to give you this witness for the churches I am the Root and the Son of David I am the bright Morning Star
She had a sister named Mary.
Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he asked, “Why are you thinking these things in your hearts?
All things are yours
I know a believer in Christ who was taken up to the third heaven  years ago. I don’t know if his body was taken up or not. Only God knows.
One of you will say to me Then why does God still blame us Who can oppose what he wants to do
After this, we started on our way to Jerusalem.
“How can someone be born when they are old?” Nicodemus asked. “They can’t go back inside their mother! They can’t be born a second time!”
Thats why Im suffering the way I am But this gives me no reason to be ashamed
I have a high fever
A Sinful Woman Pours Perfume on Jesus
Don’t you know that when you give yourselves to obey someone you become that person’s slave?
But I will take it back again
The jailer woke up He saw that the prison doors were open He pulled out his sword and was going to kill himself He thought the prisoners had escaped
Jesus said, “Are you really Abraham’s children? If you are, you will do what Abraham did.
From the tribe of Zebulun, tewelve thousend.
But Peter and John replied Which is right from Gods point of view Should we listen to you
Instead, they must be kind to everyone.
The words I spoke to you were like milk not like solid food You werent ready for solid food yet And you still arent ready for it
Then Levi gave a huge banquet for Jesus at his house.
Set an example for them in everything
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my fellow Jews. They have been in prison with me. They are leaders among the apostles. They became believers in Christ before I did.
The people were amazed at his teaching. That’s because he taught them like one who had authority. He did not talk like the teachers of the law.
They will eat her flesh
Through him and through faith in him we can approach God We can come to him freely We can come without fear
I call God to be my witness. May he take my life if I’m lying. I wanted to spare you, so I didn’t return to Corinth.
Then Paul said to him You pretender God will hit you You sit there and judge me by the law
May glory be given to God in the highest heaven
When Jesus finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes. Then he returned to his place. “Do you understand what I have done for you?” he asked them.
Stay away from godless chatter. Those who take part in it will become more and more ungodly.
“The virgin is going to have a baby. She will give birth to a son. And he will be called Immanuel.”  The name Immanuel means “God with us.”
All of them were healed.
The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land Ugly and painful sores broke out on people Those people had the mark of the beast and worshiped its statue
You pretenders! Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you. He said,
Maybe someone would be willing to die for a good person
Dear friends
I am suffering for it. I have even been put in chains like someone who has committed a crime.
But the Lord is faithful. He will strengthen you. He will guard you from the evil one.
I know that his command leads to eternal life. So everything I say is just what the Father has told me to say.”
They spit on him. They hit him on the head with the stick again and again.
Then the two witnesses heard a loud voice from heaven. It said to them, “Come up here.” They went up to heaven in a cloud. Their enemies watched it happen.
He will be filled with the Holy Spirit even before he is born
You didnt make fun of me
It is written
Why are you trying to kill me
But here is what I tell you. Not even Solomon in all his royal robes was dressed like one of these flowers.
Blessed is the one who reads out loud the words of this prophecy
Apollos watered it.
Dont be too proud to accept the word that is planted in you It can save you
And now something more important than Jonah is here
Then the church throughout Judea Galilee and Samaria enjoyed a time of peace
How is it that now he can see?”
Live like children of the light
It was also done by the Spirit of our God.
I Jesus have sent my angel to give you this witness for the churches
He is the greatest King of all.He is the most powerful Lord of all.
Then Gamaliel spoke to the Sanhedrin. “Men of Israel,” he said, “think carefully about what you plan to do to these men.
I know that none of you will ever see me again.
And he decided exactly where they should live
He asked, “Does our law find a man guilty without hearing him first? Doesn’t it want to find out what he is doing?”
May God receive glory.
Can you add even one hour to your life by worrying
They saw that only one boat had been there.
No one can brag about earning it.
Show Your Faith by What You Do
The men had not eaten for a long time
When Jesus went outside, the Pharisees and the teachers of the law strongly opposed him. They threw a lot of questions at him.
Be sure that you don’t say no to the one who speaks. People did not escape when they said no to the one who warned them on earth. And what if we turn away from the one who warns us from heaven? How much less will we escape!
I’m sure that the truth of Christ is in me. And I’m just as sure that nobody in Achaia will keep me from bragging.
“Love your neighbor as you love yourself.”
At that time Gallio was governor of Achaia.
They chose a lie instead of the truth about God.
If you remain joined to me, and I to you, you will bear a lot of fruit.
The Word became a human being. He made his home with us. We have seen his glory. It is the glory of the One and only, who came from the Father. And the Word was full of grace and truth.
Don‘t be too quick to place your hands on others to set them apart to serve God. Don’t take part in the sins of others. Keep yourself pure.
I consider Silas to be a faithful brother. With his help I have written you this short letter. I have written it to encourage you. And I have written to speak the truth about the true grace of God. Remain strong in it.
But each person is tempted by their own evil desires. These desires lead them on and drag them away.
Jesus has been taken away from you into heaven. But he will come back in the same way you saw him go.”
God is faithful. He has chosen you to share life with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
He turned against his leaders. These people will certainly be destroyed, just as Korah was.
How terrible it will be for those living on the earth
He was elected mayor.
I say those things to you as my advice, not as a command.
The next day they let the horsemen go on with him. The soldiers returned to the fort.
The wall was made out of jasper.
They brought the coin. He asked them, “Whose picture is this? And whose words?”
I had fun last night.
The Pharisees were gathered together. Jesus asked them,
He made it through these attacks by sinners. So think about him. Then you won’t get tired. You won’t lose hope.
When they arrived there, they prayed for the new believers. They prayed that they would receive the Holy Spirit.
The people expected him to swell up.
“You heavens,
I know that after I leave wild wolves will come in among you They wont spare any of the sheep
And you believers at Philippi know what happened when I left Macedonia. Not one church helped me in the matter of giving and receiving. You were the only one that did. That was in the early days when you first heard the good news.
God didnt spare the natural branches He wont spare you either
Here is the main point of what we are saying.
In the very same way, these ungodly people act on their evil dreams. So they make their own bodies impure.
“When you see leaves appear on the branches, you know that summer is near.
The members of Christs churches in Judea did not know me in a personal way
I tell you God will see that things are made right for them He will make sure it happens quickly But when the Son of Man comes will he find people on earth who have faith
So I hope to send him as soon as I see how things go with me
Then you will receive a lot in return.
And they will prophesy for one thousend two hundred sixity days They will be dressed in the rough clothes people wear when theyre sad
Judas was in charge of the money bag
So Philip ran up to the chariot He heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet
The God who chose you is holy So you should be holy in all that you do
To others the same Spirit gives faith To others that one Spirit gives gifts of healing
They are the Holy Spirit,
God opposes those who are proud
I really like to read.
I will continue to show you to them Then the love you have for me will be in them
Blessed are those who are spiritually needy
It is written, “They will rule them with an iron scepter.
It’s the same with you.
The seed on rocky ground stands for those who hear the message and receive it with joy.
Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us What do you say about yourself
Their words have gone out from one end of the world to the other
So put your hands to work. Strengthen your legs for the journey.
There was a Pharisee named Nicodemus. He was one of the Jewish rulers.
Ugly and painful sores broke out on people.
Peter replied, “All of you must turn away from your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then your sins will be forgiven. You will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
And he will prepare the way for the Lord
I will eat with that person, and they will eat with me.
Then why are you angry with me I healed a mans entire body on the Sabbath day
Its me
strength.
Ram was the father of AmminadabAmminadab was the father of NahshonNahshon was the father of Salmon
The Berean Jews were very glad to receive Pauls message
So the Pharisees said to one another, “This isn’t getting us anywhere. Look how the whole world is following him!”
Nevertheless, the Chinese millionaire and businessman Liang Shi, fifty six , did not give up ።
They replied, “Some say John the Baptist. Others say Elijah. Still others say Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”
Someone may ask you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ If so, say, ‘The Lord needs it. But he will send it back here soon.’ ”
But then the commandment came. Sin came to life
Holy brothers and sisters, God chose you to be his people.
They were greatly comforted because he was alive
He got up and ordered the wind to stop. He said to the waves, “Quiet! Be still!” Then the wind died down. And it was completely calm.
Then they turned again to the blind man
Wisdom like this doesn’t come down from heaven. It belongs to the earth. It doesn’t come from the Holy Spirit. It comes from the devil.
Then they must keep their tongues from speaking evil
This is almost the de facto feminine freedom day 
He will do this because of his Spirit who lives in you
At that same time there was a powerful earthquake
But lead good lives among them.
And I have written to speak the truth about the true grace of God
And whoever lives by believing in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
What they say is that the fifty six year old man who has been following since the age of sixty has not been able to take the test whether he or not ።
They all drank the same spiritual water They drank from the spiritual rock that went with them That rock was Christ
Who Is the Most Important Person
Ram was the father of Amminadab.Amminadab was the father of Nahshon.Nahshon was the father of Salmon.
They should be slow to get angry
You have come to the church of Gods people Gods first and only Son is over all things
Then Peter began to curse He said to them I dont know this man youre talking about
‘But here is what I have against you. You put up with that woman Jezebel. She calls herself a prophet. With her teaching, she has led my servants into sexual sin. She has tricked them into eating food offered to statues of gods.
I want to become rich
Long ago, Scripture knew that God would make the Gentiles right with himself. He would do this by their faith in him. He announced the good news ahead of time to Abraham. God said, “All nations will be blessed because of you.”
Then the men who had been sent to Jesus returned to the house. They found that the servant was healed.Jesus Raises a Widow’s Son From the Dead
The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon.
He told them to ask Jesus to come and heal his servant
Here is what Im asking Euodia and Syntyche to do Im asking them to work together in the Lord Thats because they both belong to the Lord
He came to Jesus at night and said Rabbi
After this I saw four angels.
So Jesus is not ashamed to call them his brothers and sisters.
“What are human beings that you think about them?
Jesus Heals a Man at the Pool
And it was God who gave him glory. So your faith and hope are in God.
After Paul and Silas came out of the prison, they went to Lydia’s house.
Thats because the darkness is passing away And the true light is already shining
Worship him who made the sea and the springs of water.”
Jesus Sends Out the Twelve Disciples
So dont be afraid of your enemies Everything that is secret will be brought out into the open Everything that is hidden will be uncovered
Melchizedek did not trace his family line from Levi But he collected a tenth from Abraham Melchizedek blessed the one who had received the promises
And Jesse was the father of King DavidDavid was the father of Solomon Solomons mother had been Uriahs wife
But it is not for me to say who will sit at my right or left hand These places belong to those they are prepared for
Again Jesus asked, “Simon, son of John, do you love me?”
I beg you to pray that I may return to you soon Final Blessing and Greetings
Have a lot of respect for them. Love them because of what they do. Live in peace with one another.
The dark night of evil is nearly over The day of Christs return is almost here So let us get rid of the works of darkness that harm us Let us do the works of light that protect us
I have been in prison more often
Before anything was created, he was already there. He holds everything together.
Everyone should provide for their own relatives. Most of all, everyone should take care of their own family. If they don’t, they have left the faith. They are worse than someone who doesn’t believe.
Suppose someone claims to love God but hates a brother or sister Then they are a liar They dont love their brother or sister whom they have seen So they cant love God whom they havent seen
It had seven heads and ten horns. On its seven heads it wore seven crowns.
They can never decide what to do.
It was nine o’clock in the morning when they crucified him.
you are outsiders
Abraham was patient while he waited. Then he received what God promised him.
Christ has fulfilled everything the law was meant to do. So now everyone who believes can be right with God.
Why?
Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about these things So he said to them Are you asking one another what I meant
Anyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces But the stone will crush anyone it falls on
They have done them in ungodly ways He will sentence ungodly sinners for all the things they have said to oppose him
You have given yourselves everything you wanted
Jesus said to Zacchaeus, “Today salvation has come to your house. You are a member of Abraham’s family line.
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke to me The bowls were filled with the seven last plagues The angel said Come I will show you the bride the wife of the Lamb
All of them ate and were satisfied.
I want to talk to him
The Lord’s eyes look on godly people,
Because you know all this you have great joy You have joy even though you may have had to suffer for a little while You may have had to suffer sadness in all kinds of trouble
Saul was from the tribe of Benjamin He ruled for fourty years
Hes a bit energetic
But the earth helped the woman
until I put your enemies
This problem requires wisdom. Anyone who is wise should figure out what the beast’s number means. It is the number of a man. And that number .
In the simplest one-hour job, if someone were to say they picked up, they would get ።
His followers will preach in his name. They will tell others to turn away from their sins and be forgiven. People from every nation will hear it, beginning at Jerusalem.
I'm grateful for that.
To others he gives the ability to prophesy
The lampstand was in the first room
A few days later King Agrippa and Bernice arrived in Caesarea They came to pay a visit to Festus
The Pharisees who had been sent
My dear brothers and sisters pay attention to what I sayEveryone should be quick to listen
you will live.”
There were also wild animals reptiles and birds
Let us stop judging one another. Instead, decide not to put anything in the way of a brother or sister. Don’t put anything in their way that would make them trip and fall.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered brings shame on her head It is the same as having her head shaved
So be watchful and control yourselves
His wife Elizabeth also came from the family line of Aaron.
They came out of the tombs After Jesus was raised from the dead they went into the holy city There they appeared to many people
I want to remind you about some things you already know
But he said to me My grace is all you need My power is strongest when you are weak So I am very happy to brag about how weak I am Then Christs power can rest on me
Festus spent eight or ten days in Jerusalem with them. Then he went down to Caesarea. The next day he called the court together. He ordered Paul to be brought to him.
The person who does what is right is holy
Your traders were among the worlds most important people
The prophets searched very hard and with great care to find out about this salvation They spoke about the grace that was going to come to you
You were stubborn when you opposed me
So they passed by Mysia. Then they went down to Troas.
“Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David!”
You should also want the gifts the Holy Spirit gives. Most of all, you should want the gift of prophecy.
But Jesus did not fully trust them He knew what people are like
three on the north
Caesars they replied
But whoever does not accept me does not accept the one who sent me.”
Naggai was the son of Maath
This is the time when God will punish Jerusalem. Everything will come true, just as it has been written.
He helped him to become the friend of Pharaoh the king of Egypt
If you dont I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place
I shave every morning
Suppose you don’t commit adultery but do commit murder. Then you have broken the law.
This is because my time has not yet fully come
While you have the light, believe in it. Then you can become children of light.”
It was very early in the morning on the first day of the week The women took the spices they had prepared Then they went to the tomb
He is a dear brother.
The eternal King will never die.
“We gave you clear orders not to teach in Jesus’ name,” he said. “But you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching. You want to make us guilty of this man’s death.”
Instead, I do what I hate to do.
In the past, God didn’t judge people for what they didn’t know. But now he commands all people everywhere to turn away from their sins.
But you say that whoever obeys your word will never die.
Don’t you think Scripture has a reason for saying this?
I wont stay silent
And circumcision is more than just something done to the outside of a mans body
If the root is holy, so are the branches.
So Jesus said again, “What I’m about to tell you is true. I am like a gate for the sheep.
What if you receive a message that is supposed to have come from us? What if it says that the day of the Lord has already come? If it does, we ask you not to become easily upset or alarmed. Don’t be upset whether that message is spoken or written or prophesied.
They tell lies about them. They hate God. They are rude and proud. They brag. They think of new ways to do evil. They don’t obey their parents.
People do these things when trees are green So what will happen when trees are dry
You will fill me with joy when I am with you
Send it to the seven churches in Asia Minor They are Ephesus
Moses said, ‘The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me. He will be one of your own people. You must listen to everything he tells you.
And Sarah had faith So God made it possible for her to become a mother She became a mother even though she was too old to have children But Sarah believed that the God who made the promise was faithful
Silas, Timothy and I preached to you about the Son of God, Jesus Christ. Our message did not say “Yes” and “No” at the same time. The message of Christ has always been “Yes.”
They only heard others say, “The man who used to attack us has changed. He is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy.”
No one has ever seen God But if we love one another God lives in us His love is made complete in us
Nation will fight against nation Kingdom will fight against kingdom There will be earthquakes in many places People will go hungry All these things are the beginning of birth pains
Coming out of the riders mouth is a sharp sword He will strike down the nations with the sword
Anyone who is not against us is for us.
They will be given the earth.
We don’t live for ourselves only.
You have even failed to pay the workers who mowed your fields
What can I compare todays people to They are like children sitting in the markets and calling out to others They say
I stand with the Father who sent me
And you do it to your brothers and sisters.
The Believers in Antioch
All the believers were agreed in heart and mind. They didn’t claim that anything they had was their own. Instead, they shared everything they owned.
We believe in the God who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead So God will accept our faith and make us right with himself
leave her naked
May the God who gives peace be with you all Amen
I was given a long stick that looked like a measuring rod
And I have the authority to take it back again
But Jesus asked the children to come to him Let the little children come to me he said Dont keep them away Gods kingdom belongs to people like them
So God gave his word when he made his promise He wanted to make it very clear that his purpose does not change He wanted those who would receive what was promised to know this
There your people of long ago tested me
He serves the Lord together with us
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Aren’t you the result of my work for the Lord?
Then Peter invited the men into the house to be his guests.
Brothers and sisters, I have used myself and Apollos as examples to help you.
the end result is eternal life
Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel
When they did they could not pull the net into the boat
“Whoever is not with me is against me.
Peter, John, James and Andrew,
Paul Preaches in Pisidian Antioch
What I received I passed on to you. And it is the most important of all. Here is what it is. Christ died for our sins, just as Scripture said he would.
But this woman has not stopped kissing my feet since I came in
Is it easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven’? Or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?
I wrote to the church But Diotrephes will not welcome us He loves to be the first in everything
He will make right win over wrong
Again he says,
Then he said to the man Stretch out your hand He stretched it out and his hand had become as good as new
Do you owe anything else to the government Then pay it
Love your neighbor as you love yourself.’
The soldiers were about to take Paul into the fort Then he asked the commander May I say something to you
“Then I washed.
This is Jesus the King of the Jews
His name will be on their foreheads
Jesus Is Not Accepted in Nazareth
We had battles on the outside and fears on the inside.
It was two hundred feet thick.
Johns Vision of Christ
What Makes People “Unclean”?
When he received these orders he put Paul and Silas deep inside the prison He fastened their feet so they couldnt get away
I know that you live where Satan has his throne But you remain faithful to me
A Warning Against the Sin of Ungodly People
But the believers wouldn’t let him.
I am not he replied
The nations will walk by the light of the city
We know that a god made by human hands is really nothing at all in the world We know that there is only one God
They were written down to warn us Thats because we are living at the time when Gods work is being completed
Speak to one another with psalms hymns and songs from the Spirit Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord
Here is what we announce to everyone about the Word of life. The Word was already here from the beginning. We have heard him. We have seen him with our eyes. We have looked at him. Our hands have touched him.
But here is what he says about the Son
They did not stop worshiping demons. They kept worshiping statues of gods made out of gold, silver, bronze, stone and wood. These statues can’t see or hear or walk.
can a fig tree produce olives
Jesus turned and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! You are standing in my way. You do not have in mind the things God cares about. Instead, you only have in mind the things humans care about.”
Husband, how do you know if you will save your wife?
He himself suffered when he was tempted Now he is able to help others who are being tempted
Doesnt Scripture say that the Messiah will come from the family line of David
He shows mercy to one person and makes another stubborn
False messiahs and false prophets will appear They will do signs and miracles They will try to fool Gods chosen people if possible
Stephen was full of Gods grace and power He did great wonders and signs among the people
Don’t give in to them.
This happened as Isaiah the prophet had said it would He had said
They called out in a loud voice
While the people were listening to these things, Jesus told them a story. He was near Jerusalem. The people thought that God’s kingdom was going to appear right away.
The Lord loves you Thats because God chose you as the first to be saved
What goes into someone’s mouth does not make them ‘unclean.’ It’s what comes out of their mouth that makes them ‘unclean.’ ”
Paul spoke to the people.
Doesn’t Scripture say that the Messiah will come from the family line of David? Doesn’t it say that he will come from Bethlehem, the town where David lived?”
The voice spoke to the sixth angel who had the trumpet
I share Israels hope That is why I am held with this chain
Ever since God created the world, his works have been finished.
Blessed is the person
Dear friends I know you are looking forward to this So try your best to be found pure and without blame Be at peace with God
The beast I saw looked like a leopard
He has sent me to announce freedom for prisoners.
Now I want to deal with food sacrificed to statues of gods We know that We all have knowledge
As members of Jesus’ royal family,
That comes as no surprise Even Satan himself pretends to be an angel of light
You do not belong to yourselves
I know that after I leave, wild wolves will come in among you. They won’t spare any of the sheep.
Azor was the father of ZadokZadok was the father of AkimAkim was the father of Elihud
That was because he was teaching his disciples. He said to them, “The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men. They will kill him. After three days he will rise from the dead.”
he makes them right with himself Suppose those who are not circumcised believe in him Then God also will make them right with himself
In fact, that’s the reason I was born. I was born and came into the world to be a witness to the truth.
The world has hated them. That’s because they are not part of the world any more than I am.
What Im about to tell you is true The people living now will certainly not pass away until all those things have happened
They went up to him again and again They kept saying
Blessed is anyone who does not give up their faith because of me
Praise to God
what Jesus said.
While the women were on their way some of the guards went into the city They reported to the chief priests all that had happened
fine clothes doesn’t make you beautiful.
The kings of the earth took part in her evil ways.
His eyes are like blazing fire On his head are many crowns A name is written on him that only he knows
We try
The Heavenly Warrior Has Victory Over the Beast
Jesus replied, “They don’t need to go away. You give them something to eat.”
I don’t need to write to you about giving to the Lord’s people.
The first terrible judgment is past
Do to her as she has done to others.
By Gods word the heavens and earths of today are being reserved for fire They are being kept for the day when God will judge
It sets a person’s whole way of life on fire. And the tongue itself is set on fire by hell.
The Holy Spirit gives life.
He did this even though it led to his death
The commandment also is holy and right and good
The number of men who ate was about ,. Women and children also ate.
It was made known to the prophets that they were not serving themselves. Instead, they were serving you when they spoke about the things that you have now heard.
But they have no roots. So they last only a short time. They quickly fall away from the faith when trouble or suffering comes because of the message.
You did not give me any water to wash my feet.
So he has done away with the first one
The sun and stars didn’t appear for many days. The storm was terrible. So we gave up all hope of being saved.
Don’t let any part of yourself be used to do evil. Instead, give yourselves to God.
I want you to know how hard I am working for you Im concerned for those who are in Laodicea Im also concerned for everyone who has not met me in person
Then Jesus directed them to have all the people sit down in groups on the green grass
Others were saying that Elijah had appeared
It is for liars
Then Philip began with that same part of Scripture. He told him the good news about Jesus.
When the chief priests met with the elders, they came up with a plan. They gave the soldiers a large amount of money.
But suppose unbelievers or visitors come in while everyone is prophesying
For example, by law a married woman remains married as long as her husband lives. But suppose her husband dies.
The Guards Report to the Chief Priests
Or what can anyone trade for their soul?
So Philip started out. On his way he met an Ethiopian official. The man had an important position in charge of all the wealth of the Kandake. Kandake means queen of Ethiopia. This official had gone to Jerusalem to worship.
Early in the morning, Jesus was on his way back to Jerusalem. He was hungry.
It thinks about others.
The Son is first and he is over all creation
People in the world believed in him.
Then each of them was given a white robe. “Wait a little longer,” they were told.
People have one kind of body.
Long ago it was written that they would be judged
So they threw him out of the vineyard. And they killed him.
But still you people do not accept what we say.
Didn’t we walk in the same footsteps by the same Spirit?
I know there is nothing good in my desires controlled by sin I want to do what is good but I cant
I am the apostle to the Gentiles.
When I come, I will give you more directions.
Scripture says Get rid of that evil person
We have a great high priest. He has gone up into heaven. He is Jesus the Son of God. So let us hold firmly to what we say we believe.
Shealtiel was the son of Neri
Martha served the food.
It was about noon.
Anyone who eats my body and drinks my blood remains in me
The free gift of Gods grace makes us right with him Christ Jesus paid the price to set us free
This problem requires wisdom.
They will not obey their parents
They have closed their eyes
I will pay them back  Scripture also says The Lord will judge his people
Brothers and sisters I am speaking to you who know the law Dont you know that the law has authority over someone only as long as they live
I am sending it to the lady chosen by God and to her children I love all of you because of the truth
Those who have not heard will know what it all means.”
And circumcision is more than just something done to the outside of a man’s body.
You have turned away from the love you had at first.
In the same way the chief priests the teachers of the law and the elders made fun of him
They can’t die anymore. They are like the angels. They are God’s children. They will be given a new form of life when the dead rise.
There you will find some fish.”
Suppose your son asks for bread Which of you will give him a stone
We are only people who serve. We helped you to believe.
Before long, the world will not see me anymore. But you will see me. Because I live, you will live also.
Jesus stood up and asked her, “Woman, where are they?
One will be taken and the other left
The disciples became very sad. One after the other, they began to say to him, “Surely you don’t mean me, Lord, do you?”
They will take over the holy city for fourty two months
Then some of the people of Jerusalem began asking questions. They said, “Isn’t this the man some people are trying to kill?
Those people hear the message. They keep it in their hearts. They remain faithful and produce a good crop.
For three days he took care of us He treated us with kindness
A man with a weak and twisted hand was there The Pharisees were trying to accuse Jesus of a crime So they asked him Does the Law allow us to heal on the Sabbath day
So then welcome him as a brother in the Lord with great joy Honor people like him
But you have obeyed my word.
The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him John said Look The Lamb of God He takes away the sin of the world
Their statues of gods are made to look like people birds animals and reptiles
But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God. If you believe this, you will have life because you belong to him.
Then Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath day.”
He asked Why are you crying Why are you breaking my heart
But she kept telling them it was true
I hid under the table
Didn’t he make that promise to those who didn’t obey?
I bring my rewards with me.
Who can bring any charge against God’s chosen ones?
God says in Hosea
Before time began, God promised to give that life. And he does not lie.
God has shown his grace by sparing the lives of all those sailing with you.’
And now do they want to get rid of us quietly?
The Queen of the South will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And she will prove that they are guilty.
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. Then you will tell people about me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria. And you will even tell other people about me from one end of the earth to the other.”
When he finished speaking, he turned to Simon. Jesus said, “Go out into deep water.
The Holy Spirit proved that he was the Son of God
But Festus wanted to do the Jews a favor. So he said to Paul, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem? Are you willing to go on trial there? Are you willing to face these charges in my court?”
But what they said did not agree.
But God turned away from them
It is true that there are all kinds of languages in the world And they all have meaning
But Philip announced the good news of Gods kingdom and the name of Jesus Christ So men and women believed and were baptized
Outside the city are those who are impure.
It is written
He told them all to remain true to the Lord with all their hearts
This is the written story of the family line of Jesus the Messiah, He is the son of David, He is also the son of Abraham.
But they refused to turn away from their sins. They did not give glory to God.
He replied, “In the evening you look at the sky. You say, ‘It will be good weather. The sky is red.’
But now they have seen those works
I want to say something about our brother Apollos.
both great and small
Sardis
What are they like?
We are only people who serve We helped you to believe
The sky rolled back like a scroll
What should we say then
Do what is good.
He has become a priest because of his powerful life. His life can never be destroyed.
So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus This is so we can be made right with God by believing in ChristWe are not made right by obeying the law
On one of those days, Jesus went out to a mountainside to pray. He spent the night praying to God.
With a mighty voice he shouted,
You Samaritans worship what you do not know
Value others more than yourselves.
She did what she could. She poured perfume on my body to prepare me to be buried.
“Look! I am coming soon!
King Agrippa, it is also because of this hope that these Jews are bringing charges against me.
He said Come I will show you how the great prostitute will be punished She is the one who sits by many waters
The Pharisees and the teachers of the law began to think, “Who is this fellow who says such an evil thing? Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
Sometimes people spoke badly about you in front of others.
Before Jesus came, John preached that we should turn away from our sins and be baptized. He preached this to all Israel.
He circumcised Isaac eight days after he was born
A woman was there who had a sickness that made her bleed. Her sickness had lasted for twelve years. No one could heal her.
So obey God. Stand up to the devil. He will run away from you.
Im not good enough to untie the straps of his sandals
Barnabas and Paul strongly disagreed with each other. So they went their separate ways. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus.
But the body is not meant for sexual sins
Here are the miraculous signs that those who believe will do. In my name they will drive out demons. They will speak in languages they had not known before.
It comes from a good sense of what is right and wrong
Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus. He didn’t want to spend time in Asia Minor. He was in a hurry to get to Jerusalem. If he could, he wanted to be there by the day of Pentecost.
Put on the helmet of salvation. And take the sword of the Holy Spirit. The sword is God’s word.
I left you on the island of Crete. I did this because there were some things that hadn’t been finished. I wanted you to put them in order. I also wanted you to appoint elders in every town. I told you how to do it.
So get rid of everything that is sinful. Get rid of the evil that is all around us.
They also will listen to my voice
But not everything is helpful Again some of you say I have the right to do anything
So was the table with its holy bread
I sent you to gather what you have not worked for. Others have done the hard work. You have gathered the benefits of their work.”
“Then he said, ‘This is what I’ll do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones.
Jesus answered I saw you while you were still under the fig tree I saw you there before Philip called you
Make sure that you get your full reward.
You are the Holy One of God
But I dont want to use paper and ink I hope I can visit you instead
So I put up with everything for the good of God’s chosen people. Then they also can be saved. Christ Jesus saves them. He gives them glory that will last forever.
And we are sending it to the church that meets in your home.
We dont give up when we are beaten or put in prison When people stir up trouble in the streets we continue to serve God We work hard for him We go without sleep and food
Jesus our priest offered one sacrifice for sins for all time. Then he sat down at the right hand of God.
And suppose you lend money to those who can pay you back Should anyone praise you for that
Those who live like that are dragged down by what they do They are destroyed and die
The Ship Is Destroyed
Let us consider how we can stir up one another to love Let us help one another to do good works
Abraham was the father of Isaac.Isaac was the father of Jacob.Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers.
Jesus knew what they were thinking. So he said to them, “Any kingdom that fights against itself will be destroyed. A family that is divided against itself will fall.
My brothers and sisters, when you come together to eat, you should all eat together.
When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell at his feet. He shouted at the top of his voice, “Jesus, Son of the Most High God, what do you want with me? I beg you, don’t hurt me!”
The veil has not been removed
We know that the law is holy
Three days after Festus arrived, he went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
Let us act as we should, like people living in the daytime.
Those eight people were saved through water
Then Paul and Barnabas reported everything God had done through them.
He saw the disciples pulling hard on the oars The wind was blowing against them Shortly before dawn he went out to them He walked on the lake When he was about to pass by them
Then there will be one flock and one shepherd
But you commit adultery! You hate statues of gods. But you rob temples!
I decided to use you to show my power. I wanted my name to become known everywhere on earth.”
But every spirit that doesn’t agree with this does not belong to God.
It was completely calm.
Wash your hands you sinners
“I have obeyed all those commandments,” the young man said. “What else do I need to do?”
Drive on.
they will try to hurt others
The Lord God will make him a king like his father David of long ago.
“Sir,” they said, “Always give us this bread.”
And all of you know the truth.
He was sitting there
The hair on his head was white like wool as white as snow
Be understanding Love one another
Dear friends,
Paul and Silas Are Sent to Berea
We know that those who are children of God do not keep on sinning The Son of God keeps them safe The evil one cant harm them
From this time on, many of his disciples turned back. They no longer followed him.
Twenty-four other thrones surrounded that throne.
But the angel said to her Do not be afraid Mary God is very pleased with you
“Why are you amazed?
Then a third of the sun was struck A third of the moon was struck
Babylon the Great has fallen!’
But sexual sins are sins against their own body.
Jesus’ Family Escapes to Egypt
When he arrived in Galilee the people living there welcomed him
Havent you read what this part of Scripture says
‘I know what you are doing. I know your love and your faith. I know how well you have served. I know you don’t give up easily. In fact, you are doing more now than you did at first.
What you are accepting is really not the good news at all It seems that some people have gotten you all mixed up They are trying to twist the good news about Christ
Gods gifts of grace come in many forms Each of you has received a gift in order to serve others You should use it faithfully
I forgot to ask Abrham .
There may be so-called gods either in heaven or on earth
Be watchful and control yourselves
Jesus was going up to Jerusalem. On the way, he took his  disciples to one side to talk to them.
Because I live, you will live also.
John saw many Pharisees and Sadducees coming to where he was baptizing He said to them You are like a nest of poisonous snakes Who warned you to escape the coming of Gods anger
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers and sisters gave us a warm welcome.
But the charges brought against me by these Jews are not true. No one has the right to hand me over to them.
Let the words you speak always be full of grace Learn how to make your words what people want to hear Then you will know how to answer everyone
A group of Epicurean and Stoic thinkers began to argue with him Some of them asked What is this fellow chattering about
David spoke about him He said
Be kind
After Herod arrested Peter he put him in prison Peter was placed under guard He was watched by four groups of four soldiers each
thunder
Who will save me from this sin that brings death to my body
He has sent me so that the blind will see again
It wasn’t possible for death to keep its hold on Jesus.
No one pours new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the new wine will burst the skins. The wine will run out, and the wineskins will be destroyed.
It was one thoused four hundred miles long
A man named Cornelius lived in Caesarea. He was a Roman commander in the Italian Regiment.
So no one will be considered right with God by obeying the law
Then Death and Hell were thrown into the lake of fire
commanded them not to do it.
Was he uncircumcised when God chose him Then he should not be circumcised
When I do they will prophesy
Jesus went to the area of Caesarea Philippi. There he asked his disciples, “Who do people say the Son of Man is?”
free and slave
They will be paid back with harm for the harm they have done
Jesus replied Things that are impossible with people are possible with God
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is a child of God
The person without the Spirit doesnt accept the things that come from the Spirit of God
If we know that God hears what we ask for,
Obey them because its the right thing to do
You say I have the right to do anything But not everything is helpful Again you say I have the right to do anything But not everything builds us up
The Pharisees said to Jesus, “Look! It is against the Law to do this on the Sabbath day. Why are your disciples doing it?”
To resolve this, there is a need to discuss ።
He makes those who serve him to be like flashes of lightning
They will tear others down.
And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
He called out to them, “Friends, don’t you have any fish?”
When Jesus said that, one of the officials nearby slapped him in the face.
Soon people were making trouble in the whole city. They all rushed into the theater. They dragged Gaius and Aristarchus along with them. These two men had come with Paul from Macedonia.
Right away Zechariah could speak again
The first time I was put on trial, no one came to help me. Everyone deserted me.
Again Jesus began to teach by the Sea of Galilee. The crowd that gathered around him was very large. So he got into a boat. He sat down in it out on the lake. All the people were along the shore at the water’s edge.
From now on there will be five members in a family, each one against the other. There will be three against two and two against three.
Elmadam was the son of Er.
Dont fool yourselves Suppose some of you think you are wise by the standards of the world Then you should become fools so that you can become wise
Yes I tell you the people of today will be punished for all these things
When God made his promise, he gave his word. He did this so we would have good reason not to give up. Instead, we have run to take hold of the hope set before us. This hope is set before us in God’s promise. So God made his promise and gave his word. These two things can’t change. He couldn’t lie about them.
“But at the beginning of creation, God ‘made them male and female.’
You have spent enough time in the past doing what ungodly people choose to do. You lived a wild life. You longed for evil things. You got drunk. You went to wild parties. You worshiped statues of gods, which the Lord hates.
They will say Where is this return he promised
Some of you say I have the right to do anything But not everything is helpful Again some of you say I have the right to do anything But I will not be controlled by anything
God has given us eternal life
So don’t be proud, but tremble.
But Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt. So he sent his sons on their first visit.
He was also chosen by the churches to go with us as we bring the offering. We are in charge of it.
Dont you know that people who do wrong will not receive Gods kingdom
Hold fire.
Try your best to live in peace with everyone. Try hard to be holy. Without holiness no one will see the Lord.
He said Lord they have killed your prophets They have torn down your altars Im the only one left And they are trying to kill me
I have come to do what you want my God
After I go through Macedonia I will come to you I will only be passing through Macedonia
I wrote a letter to you to tell you to stay away from people who commit sexual sins.
You have been raised up with Christ. So think about things that are in heaven.
Suppose you with all your knowledge are eating in a temple of one of those gods And suppose someone who has a weak sense of what is right and wrong sees you
We know it because of the Holy Spirit he gave us.
He is full of joy when he hears the groom’s voice.
The Lamb broke open the fourth seal Then I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say Come
No one could enter the temple at that time
God chose to give us new birth through the message of truth He wanted us to be the first harvest of his new creation
You know very well that we have to go through times of testing.
Some people still think that statues of gods are real gods They might eat food sacrificed to statues of gods When they do they think of it as food sacrificed to real gods
Accept the person whose faith is weak. Don’t argue with them where you have differences of opinion.
But who are you?”
Sinful desire is interested only in getting ahead
People like that are not serving Christ our Lord. They are serving only themselves.
It seems to me that God has put us apostles on display at the end of a parade.
They sold property and other things they owned. They gave to anyone who needed something.
I know that you always hear me. But I said this for the benefit of the people standing here. I said it so they will believe that you sent me.”
I know that you are praying for me. I also know that God will give me the Spirit of Jesus Christ to help me. So no matter what happens, I’m sure I will still be set free.
“I am willing to do it,” he said. “Be ‘clean’!” Right away the disease left him.
At that time Herod, the ruler of Galilee and Perea, heard reports about Jesus.
That’s because Christ suffered for you. He left you an example that he expects you to follow.
It is a chosen and very valuable stone.
So no one can boast to God.
‘I know what you are doing.
They fall into a trap
Speak to one another with psalms, hymns and songs from the Spirit.
People now come to God through him And he is able to save them completely and for all time Jesus lives forever He prays for them
Brothers and sisters, I no longer preach that people must be circumcised. If I did, why am I still being opposed? If I preached that, then the cross wouldn’t upset anyone.
Suddenly Jesus met them Greetings he said They came to him took hold of his feet and worshiped him
Jesus went up on a mountainside. He called for certain people to come to him, and they came.
Jesus also gave them another example
The Letter to the Church in Thyatira
So he continued speaking. He said, “This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless the Father helps them.”
The demons begged Jesus If you drive us out send us into the herd of pigs
What will the owner of the vineyard do to the renters
There are also heavenly bodies as well as earthly bodies Heavenly bodies have one kind of glory Earthly bodies have another
You know what the commandments say. ‘Do not murder. Do not commit adultery. Do not steal. Do not be a false witness. Do not cheat. Honor your father and mother.’ ”
He was led like a sheep to be killed
It cuts deep enough to separate soul from spirit.
God has shown that what we have spoken to you about Christ is true
Go and show yourself to the priest.
Here is what you can be sure of. Those who give themselves over to sexual sins are lost. So are people whose lives are impure. The same is true of those who always want more and more. People who do these things might as well worship statues of gods. No one who does them will receive a share in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Do you owe honor? Then show it.
You are certainly giving thanks But no one else is being built up
And it told lies about those who live in heaven with him
But he was full of the Holy Spirit. He looked up to heaven and saw God’s glory.
And then he could pay for the sins of the people by dying for them.
Then they asked him, “What did he do to you?
“Salt is good. But suppose it loses its saltiness. How can you make it salty again? Have salt among yourselves. And be at peace with each other.
Here is the meaning of the mystery of the seven stars you saw in my right hand They are the angels of the seven churches And the seven golden lampstands you saw stand for the seven churches
But a poor widow came and put in two very small copper coins They were worth only a few pennies
It makes the whole body impure
How can they call on him unless they believe in him
So don’t be afraid in any way of those who oppose you. This will show them that they will be destroyed and that you will be saved. That’s what God will do.
He wants all of you to learn to control your own bodies. You must live in a way that is holy. You must live with honor.
Whoever doesn’t belong to the Son of God doesn’t have life.
Jesus Heals a Boy Who Is Controlled by a Demon
One day Jesus was praying in a certain place.
Jesus said to them Why do people say that the Messiah is the son of David
We have a high priest who can feel it when we are weak and hurting.
They do not belong to the world, just as I do not belong to it.
The power of the horses was in their mouths and in their tails
But if I don’t understand what someone is saying, I am a stranger to the person speaking. And that person is a stranger to me.
But after the three and a half days the breath of life from God entered the witnesses They both stood up Terror struck those who saw them
Jesus told them This very night you will all turn away because of me It is written that the Lord said
The cries of those who gathered the harvest have reached the ears of the Lord
So they gathered what was left over from the five barley loaves. They filled tewelve baskets with the pieces left by those who had eaten.
I was glad when Stephanas Fortunatus and Achaicus arrived
Suppose it was different from the one you accepted earlier You put up with those kinds of things easily enough
Instead they should put on good works as if good works were their clothes
We are parts of his body.
The Narrow Door
Being uncircumcised means nothing. Doing what God commands is what counts.
Many people commanded him to stop They told him to be quiet But he shouted even louder Son of David Have mercy on me
Then Jesus asked the demon What is your name
It throws him into fits so that he foams at the mouth.
In Bethlehem in Judea they replied This is what the prophet has written He said
I have spent time with you preaching about the kingdom
Birds sing
Anyone who leads a life of love is joined to God.
Do everything you say or do in the name of the Lord Jesus. Always give thanks to God the Father through Christ.
In fact he throws them out of the church
This happened during the Feast of Unleavened Bread
“This child is going to cause many people in Israel to fall and to rise.
Each person should test their own actions.
Paul and Silas Are Thrown Into Prison
The demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs.
And command them not to spend their time on stories that are made up. They must not waste time on family histories that never end.
Evil thoughts come out of a person’s heart. So do murder, adultery, and other sexual sins. And so do stealing, false witness, and telling lies about others.
Everyone who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him. They turned to the Lord.
I wish I had seen her
The elders who do the church’s work well are worth twice as much honor.
True teaching agrees with the good news about the glory of the blessed God. He trusted me with that good news.
It comes from the one who sent me.
You also have people who follow the teaching of the Nicolaitans
They are the people of Israel
Watch out that you don’t lose what we have worked for. Make sure that you get your full reward.
How can we thank God enough for you
Then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scriptures
But because I tell the truth you dont believe me
God told him that circumcision would show who the members of the covenant were.
Stop sinning or something worse may happen to you.”
Wait
You rich people listen to me Cry and weep because you will soon be suffering
When harvest time approached, he sent his slaves to the renters. He told the slaves to collect his share of the fruit.
Paul shook the snake off into the fire
He may have been ill.
He is apt to be late
So the one who plants and the one who gathers can now be glad together.
Do what you have learned or received or heard from me. Follow myexample.
You say I am rich
Some people in Jerusalem were thought to be important But it makes no difference to me what they were God does not treat people differently Those people added nothing to my message
Instead, the Holy Spirit guided the prophets as they spoke. So, although prophets are human, prophecy comes from God.
The public said they were facing death because they would not go to the health center and get full service።
I hope everything turns out fine for you
He is the one who will baptize with the Holy Spirit
Your gifts meet the needs of the Lords people And thats not all
suppose I give myself over to a difficult life so I can brag
We know that we have left our old dead way of life.
There was a woman in that town who had lived a sinful life She learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisees house
I’ll do it even though you know them.
Then let them be won to Christ without words by seeing how their wives behave
Paul Gives a Final Command to Timothy
It was the same for Christ. He did not take for himself the glory of becoming a high priest. But God said to him,
He is the one who comes after me.
Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph saw where Jesus body had been placed
John baptized with water. But in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.”
This news made all the believers very glad
Im almost sure of it
And the Father has given him the authority to judge. This is because he is the Son of Man.
Brothers and sisters think of what you were when God chose you
Brothers and fathers listen to me Stephen replied
The woman realized that people would notice he. Shaking with fear, she came and fell at his feet. In front of everyone, she told why she had touched him. She also told how she had been healed in an instant.
They came to Jesus and begged him
I laughed.
And I know about Paul
The slave woman’s son will never have a share of the family’s property. He’ll never share it with the free woman’s son.”
“Do not stop him,” Jesus said. “Anyone who is not against you is for you.”
But suppose I drive out demons with the help of God’s powerful finger. Then God’s kingdom has come upon you.
Can fresh water and salt water flow out of the same spring?
Peter John James and Andrew
If your eye causes you to sin poke it out It would be better for you to enter Gods kingdom with only one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into hell
“Abraham is our father,” they answered.
We came near Cyprus and passed to the south of it. Then we sailed on to Syria. We landed at Tyre. There our ship was supposed to unload.
Not even the highest places or the lowest.
These are not the things Gods holy people should do
Use the truth to make them holy
Don’t fail to use the gift the Holy Spirit gave you. He gave it to you through a prophecy from God. It was given when the elders placed their hands on you.
And they will be my people.”
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders. The leaders had already made this decision about Jesus. Anyone who said Jesus was the Messiah would be put out of the synagogue.
Did you meet Abrham?
“Go,” Jesus replied. “Your son will live.”
That will happen in a flash, as quickly as you can wink an eye. It will happen at the blast of the last trumpet. Then the dead will be raised to live forever. And we will be changed.
At the feast the Jewish leaders were watching for Jesus
Babylon the Great has fallen!’
Then the disciples came to him They asked Do you know that the Pharisees were angry when they heard this
The crooked roads will become straight.
Zacchaeus wanted to see who Jesus was. But he was a short man. He could not see Jesus because of the crowd.
Who were those who heard and refused to obey Werent they all the people Moses led out of Egypt
Jesus Is Brought to Pilate
When the governor saw what had happened he believed He was amazed at what Paul was teaching about the Lord
So I want you to know that no one who is speaking with the help of Gods Spirit says May Jesus be cursed And without the help of the Holy Spirit no one can say Jesus is Lord
God’s grace has saved you.
Again the kingdom of heaven is like a trader who was looking for fine pearls
Simon answered, “Master, we’ve worked hard all night and haven’t caught anything.
“That’s the price.”
There was something that looked like a sea of glass in front of the throne
Again you say, “I have the right to do anything.” But not everything builds us up.
You have come to the spirits of godly people who have been made perfect.
“In Bethlehem in Judea,” they replied. “This is what the prophet has written. He said,
Because of his faith he was considered right with God
Who has seen the Lords saving power
This is so that they may be brought together perfectly as one
The fire that Sosgna bled at to thicken was a sign of an incense between three turns for Queen Eleni to find the cross።
These and all other commands are included in one command
I saw another angel. He was flying high in the air.
But the evil magician named Elymas opposed them The name Elymas means Magician
He must become more important
I forgot to ask Abrham
Your strength to continue comes from your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And the scroll of Isaiah the prophet was handed to him
Jesus began to speak against the towns where he had done most of his miracles. The people there had not turned away from their sins. So he said,
So dont be ashamed of the message about our Lord And dont be ashamed of me his prisoner Instead join with me as I suffer for the good news Gods power will help us do that
Now we can see that you know everything. You don’t even need anyone to ask you questions. This makes us believe that you came from God.”
Jacob and his sons couldn’t find food.
So Pharaoh made Joseph ruler over Egypt and his whole palace
you yourselves will not lift one finger to help them
I say to my servant Do this and he does it
In other words, God’s children are not just in the family line of Abraham.
Simon and his friends went to look for Jesus.
I saw in heaven another great and wonderful sign.
Ever since the world was created it has been possible to see the qualities of God that are not seen
People who want to get rich are tempted.
He suffered death. By the grace of God, he tasted death for everyone.
One day an authority on the law stood up to test Jesus.
Here’s what believers who are in low positions in life should be proud of. They should be proud that God has given them a high position in the kingdom.
will never be heard in you again.
Heaven and earth will pass away. But my words will never pass away.
Is it far
Jesus replied, “Things that are impossible with people are possible with God.”
You are joined to Christ and belong to him. And Christ is joined to God.
Once more, Jesus visited Cana in Galilee. Cana is where he had turned the water into wine.
So what are you waiting for?
Can any of you prove I am guilty of sinning
Now I want to deal with the offering of money for the Lords people Do what I told the churches in Galatia to do
And,
When the Temple Will Be Destroyed and the Signs of the End
They have been a comfort to me
How terrible How terrible it is for you
The days will come when your enemies will arrive They will build a wall of dirt up against your city They will surround you and close you in on every side
He also talked about the time when God will judge everyone Then Felix became afraid
A woman from Samaria came to get some water. Jesus said to her, “Will you give me a drink?”
One day Jesus was teaching the people in the temple courtyard. He was announcing the good news to them. The chief priests and the teachers of the law came up to him. The elders came with them.
Abraham didnt do the things you want to do
They wondered why he stayed there so long
It is written
Mary was very upset because of his words
My God will meet all your needs He will meet them in keeping with his wonderful riches These riches come to you because you belong to Christ Jesus
One of the beasts heads seemed to have had a deadly wound
With your heart you believe and are made right with God With your mouth you say what you believe And so you are saved
A man in the crowd called out
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there across from the tomb
From there we continued on to Patara.
Some of the natural branches have been broken off. You are a wild olive branch. But you have been joined to the tree with the other branches. Now you enjoy the life-giving sap of the olive tree root.
Jesus answered, “You have said so.”
I hope it is also plain to your way of thinking
The men replied, “We have come from Cornelius, the Roman commander. He is a good man who worships God. All the Jewish people respect him. A holy angel told him to invite you to his house. Then Cornelius can hear what you have to say.”
the one who pulls back
But inside you are full of greed and evil.
I sent you to gather what you have not worked for
Treat them that way. Then those who trust in God will be careful to commit themselves to doing good.
Is anyone among you wise and understanding
Be sure that you don’t say no to the one who speaks.
Your faith and love are based on the hope you have What you hope for is stored up for you in heaven
Then they can take pride in themselves They wont be comparing themselves to someone else
With your mouth you say what you believe And so you are saved
But what Im about to tell you is true It is for your good that I am going away
All I wanted to do was hurt them. I even went looking for them in the cities of other lands.
Then he left them He got back into the boat and crossed to the other side of the lake
“This is how my Father in heaven will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother or sister from your heart.”
Teachings like those come from liars who pretend to be what they are not. Their sense of what is right and wrong has been destroyed. It’s as though it has been burned with a hot iron.
Night and day he screamed among the tombs and in the hills He cut himself with stones
Abraham had faith So when God tested him Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice
The Lord said, “Listen to what the unfair judge says.
They are the people who separate you from one another They do only what comes naturally They are not led by the Holy Spirit
You know what the commandments say Do not murder Do not commit adultery Do not steal Do not be a false witness Do not cheat Honor your father and mother
Dear children, keep away from statues of gods.
Also, the patch from the new clothes will not match the old clothes.
I command you to follow these instructions. I command you in the sight of God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels. Treat everyone the same. Don’t favor one person over another.
We never stop thanking God for the way you received his word.
Then he spoke to them. “Anyone who welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me,” he said. “And anyone who welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me. The one considered least important among all of you is really the most important.”
They had not committed sexual sins with women They had kept themselves pure They follow the Lamb wherever he goes They were purchased from among human beings as a first offering to God and the Lamb
Salmon was the father of Boaz Rahab was Boazs motherBoaz was the father of Obed Ruth was Obeds motherObed was the father of Jesse
Joseph was the son of Mattathias.
But you allow people to say that what might have been used to help their parents is Corban Corban means A Gift Set Apart for God
A holy tent was set up.
We stayed there for seven days.
Remember that while our Lord is waiting patiently to return people are being saved
It is written, “The one who gathered a lot didn’t have too much. And the one who gathered a little had enough.”
Then Jesus took bread. He gave thanks and broke it. He handed it to them and said, “This is my body. It is given for you. Every time you eat it, do this in memory of me.”
God gave his word when he made that promise
Also people do not light a lamp and put it under a bowl Instead they put it on its stand Then it gives light to everyone in the house
But you have obeyed my word
But the Jews in Thessalonica found out that Paul was preaching Gods word in Berea So some of them went there too
I say this to make you ashamed.
I am God’s servant, just like the other prophets. And I serve God along with all who obey the words of this book.
I hope that you will always be able to remember these things after I’m gone. I will try very hard to see that you do.
Then the king told his slaves Tie up his hands and feet Throw him outside into the darkness Out there people will weep and grind their teeth
So let us do all we can to live in peace. And let us work hard to build up one another.
They didnt worship the Creator
He was teaching in their synagogues
But a widow who lives for pleasure is dead even while she is still living
“ ‘My son,’ the father said, ‘you are always with me. Everything I have is yours.
It was as clear as crystal It flowed from the throne of God and of the Lamb
If that were not the case, your children would not be pure and “clean.”
People in the world believed in him
Those who serve Christ in this way are pleasing to God
Others will be judged later.
He has chosen us to live a holy life. It wasn’t because of anything we have done.
They will treat you like that because of my name They do not know the one who sent me
loving and
And what if she divorces her husband and gets married to another man She commits adultery
You are poor, blind and naked.
They had seen everything he had done in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast That was because they had also been there
Meanwhile, Simon Peter was still standing there warming him by the fire.
But the earth helped the woman It opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had spit out
The sun has one kind of glory The moon has another kind The stars have still another And one stars glory is different from that of another star
About that time she became sick and died.
Paul wanted to appear in front of the crowd.
Then the officer said I had to pay a lot of money to become a citizen
The commander told him he could. So Paul stood on the steps and motioned to the crowd.
We have a high priest who can feel it when we are weak and hurting. We have a high priest who has been tempted in every way, just as we are. But he did not sin.
This is the heavenly Jerusalem. You have come to a joyful gathering of angels.
Love your neighbor as you love yourself
I dont have any place to store my crops
When Paul arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him. They brought many strong charges against him. But they couldn’t prove that these charges were true.
Paul came to Derbe. Then he went on to Lystra. A believer named Timothy lived there. His mother was Jewish and a believer. His father was a Greek.
He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven. He gives you crops in their seasons. He provides you with plenty of food. He fills your hearts with joy.”
They escaped being killed by swords
God will judge the earth and everything done in it
Simon, whom Jesus named Peter, and his brother Andrew,James,John,Philip,Bartholomew
We are weak.
He appeared to James
Don’t think that you are better than others.
So why do you act as if you still belong to the world? Here are the rules you follow.
Barabbas had taken part in an armed struggle against the countrys rulers
Come and follow me Jesus said I will send you out to fish for people
On the first day of the week we met to break bread and eat together.
The Messiah comes from their family line.
He chose to be treated badly together with the people of God He chose not to enjoy sins pleasures They only last for a short time
Those who were not told about him will understand
The three most important things to have are faith, hope and love. But the greatest of them is love.
They said, “Prophesy to us, Messiah! Who hit you?”
I, Paul, am a prisoner because of Christ Jesus. I am in prison because of my work among you who are Gentiles.
It is right for me to feel this way about all of you. I love you with all my heart. I may be held by chains, or I may be standing up for the truth of the good news. Either way, all of you share in God’s grace together with me.
He didnt let anything stop him Thats because he saw the God who cant be seen
Love is patient
Because he is at my right hand
What do you think about this A man had two sons He went to the first and said Son go and work today in the vineyard
In this way, they will store up true riches for themselves. It will provide a firm basis for the next life. Then they will take hold of the life that really is life.
When others say bad things about us, we answer with kind words.
We belong to Christ if we hold tightly to the faith we had at first. But we must hold it tightly until the end.
That’s why I am sending him to you. I want you to know how we are. And I want him to encourage you.
The water will come from the spring of the water of life It doesnt cost anything
But the things that come out of a person’s mouth come from the heart. Those are the things that make someone ‘unclean.’
They were surprised to find him talking with a woman
But everything he said about this man was true
Somewhere he spoke about the seventh day. He said, “On the seventh day God rested from all his works.”
He has broken the power of death Because of the good news he has brought life out into the light That life never dies
I have seen my people beaten down in Egypt.
When you suffer, be patient.
What Im about to tell you is true Many prophets and godly people wanted to see what you see But they didnt see it They wanted to hear what you hear But they didnt hear it
It does many things of that kind
But suppose that married woman sleeps with another man while her husband is still alive.
And pray for those who treat you badly.
The two of them will become one They are no longer two but one
Let us eat and drink
Are we “out of our minds,” as some people say? If so, it is because we want to serve God. Does what we say make sense? If so, it is because we want to serve you.
The third angel blew his trumpet
Jesus said to them You try to make yourselves look good in the eyes of other people
I lost
You give God a tenth of your garden plants such as mint and rue
Do what is good
The crowd was amazed
In fact, some have already turned away to follow Satan.
Have you experienced so much for nothing? And was it really for nothing?
Epaphras sends greetings. He is one of you. He serves Christ Jesus. He is always praying hard for you. He prays that you will hold on tightly to all that God has in mind for us. He prays that you will keep growing in your knowledge of what God wants. He also prays that you will be completely sure about it.
Or at least believe what the works I have been doing say about me
Because you know all this you have great joy
Then all people will honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father, who sent him.
They will rule on the earth.”
So the copies of the heavenly things had to be made pure with these sacrifices.
Nothing God created is hidden from him His eyes see everything He will hold us responsible for everything we do
Jesus also suffered outside the city gate. He suffered to make the people holy by spilling his own blood.
Get up Let us go Here comes the one who is handing me over to them
And Jesse was the father of King David.David was the father of Solomon. Solomon’s mother had been Uriah’s wife.
“Who can ever know what is in the Lord’s mind?
It will not be you speaking The Spirit of your Father will be speaking through you
Then I will be able to preach the good news in the areas beyond you I dont want to brag about work already done in someone elses territory
One Sabbath day Jesus was walking through the grainfields. His disciples began to break off some heads of grain.
Those who have not heard will know what it all means.”
“Caesar’s,” they replied.
I will store my extra grain in them.
May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior give you grace and peace.
He tried to feel his way around. He wanted to find someone to lead him by the hand.
birds reptiles
Because of what God has done you belong to Christ Jesus He has become Gods wisdom for us He makes us right with God He makes us holy and sets us free
But if I go I will send him to you
Then Pilate asked him Dont you hear the charges they are bringing against you
So he met us there. We took him on board and went on to Mitylene.
Now there is no more place for me to work in those areas For many years I have wanted to visit you
Not many of you were considered wise by human standards Not many of you were powerful Not many of you belonged to important families
I make my appeal to you brothers and sisters Im asking you to become like me After all I became like you You didnt do anything wrong to me
He knew the Scriptures very well.
Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through
The tongue is also a fire.
They said to him That would take more than half a years pay Should we go and spend that much on bread Are we supposed to feed them
And I will keep on doing what I’m doing. That will stop those who claim they have things to brag about.
Besides everything else every day I am concerned about all the churches It is a very heavy load
The people and their rulers had no reason at all for sentencing Jesus to death.
That’s because we will see him as he really is.
Reports of these things were handed down to us. There were people who saw these things for themselves from the beginning. They saw them and then passed the word on.
Pilate said, “Take him yourselves. Judge him by your own law.”
We know that he has chosen you
He sent a man right away to bring Johns head The man went to the prison and cut off Johns head
“You are Israel’s teacher,” said Jesus. “Don’t you understand these things?
The family of believers throughout the world is going through the same thing
All the nations will be gathered in front of him He will separate the people into two groups He will be like a shepherd who separates the sheep from the goats
Deep inside me I find joy in Gods law
They are like wild waves of the sea Their shame rises up like foam They are like falling stars God has reserved a place of very black darkness for them forever
God was working in Peter as an apostle to the Jews God was also working in me as an apostle to the Gentiles
And there were many in Israel who had skin diseases in the days of Elisha the prophet.
We know that God raised the Lord Jesus from the dead And he will also raise us up with Jesus And he will present both you and us to himself
So he asked him, “Do you want to get well?”
In those days they will go without eating
“Listen carefully to what I am about to tell you. The Son of Man is going to be handed over to men.”
“When the owner of the vineyard comes back, what will he do to those renters?”
When you do these things, keep in mind the times we are living in. The hour has already come for you to wake up from your sleep. The full effects of our salvation are closer now than when we first believed in Christ.
It is hard for you to go against what you know is right
The jailer brought them into his house. He set a meal in front of them.
Some of the angels didn’t stay where they belonged. They didn’t keep their positions of authority. The Lord has kept those angels in darkness. They are held by chains that last forever. On judgment day, God will judge them.
But it had feet like a bear and a mouth like a lion.
They will say, ‘This person started to build but wasn’t able to finish.’
God’s first and only Son is over all things. When God brings him into the world, he says,
The disciples had forgotten to bring bread. They had only one loaf with them in the boat.
But here is what I tell you. Do not make any promises like that at all. Do not make them in the name of heaven. That is God’s throne.
About  days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship. You can easily check on this.
The next day he called the court together. He ordered Paul to be brought to him.
“We are going up to Jerusalem,” he said. “The Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will sentence him to death. Then they will hand him over to the Gentiles.
Then the people who have done what is right will answer him Lord they will ask when did we see you hungry and feed you When did we see you thirsty and give you something to drink
and he blesses them.
If the governor hears this report we will pay him off
Jesus went off to the Sea of Galilee with his disciples A large crowd from Galilee followed
When the chief priests met with the elders they came up with a plan They gave the soldiers a large amount of money
They will be filled.
But rich people should take pride in their low positions.
“He must die!” they answered.
At that time Jesus was full of joy through the Holy Spirit
But other land produces only thorns and weeds That land isnt worth anything It is in danger of coming under Gods curse In the end it will be burned
We sang a funeral songBut you didnt cry
His house is by the sea
Shem was the son of Noah.
May the Lord be with all of you
They will eat her flesh
Long ago, Scripture knew that God would make the Gentiles right with himself. He would do this by their faith in him.
He saidHoly One the way you judge is fair
“ ‘You have done well, my good slave!’ his master replied. ‘You have been faithful in a very small matter. So I will put you in charge of ten towns.’
So Herod locked John up in prison
I know what you are doing
I havent caused you any expense at all
So he made them leave
Still others claimed He is a prophet He is like one of the prophets of long ago
The fifth was made out of onyx. The sixth was made out of ruby. The seventh was made out of chrysolite. The eighth was made out of beryl. The ninth was made out of topaz. The tenth was made out of turquoise. The eleventh was made out of jacinth. The twelfth was made out of amethyst.
The high priest questioned them
We will spend a year there.
They knew God. But they didn’t honor him as God. They didn’t thank him. Their thinking became worthless. Their foolish hearts became dark.
That’s because what can be seen lasts only a short time.
I tell you the devil will put some of you in prison to test you
We remain pure. We understand completely what it means to serve God. We are patient and kind. We serve him in the power of the Holy Spirit. We serve him with true love.
Jesus replied I will also ask you one question If you answer me I will tell you by what authority I am doing these things
I want to remind you about some things you already know.
“Lord God who rules over all,
We have never been slaves of anyone.
Shouldn’t you have thrown out of your church the man doing this?
We know that no one who depends on the law is made right with God
Here is a saying you can trust. If anyone wants to be a leader in the church, they want to do a good work for God and people.
A few days later King Agrippa and Bernice arrived in Caesarea. They came to pay a visit to Festus.
Right away the believers sent Paul to the coast.
Often I have gone without food
You will always have the poor among you
He was seen by angels
We are sending this letter to you, the members of the church in Thessalonica. You belong to God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
But he did not raise him if the dead are not raised
When the disciples saw this they became angry Why this waste they asked
They brought the donkey and the colt. They placed their coats on them for Jesus to sit on.
Heres a good seat for you Would you say to the poor man
They passed the first and second guards Then they came to the Iron Gate leading to the city It opened for them by itself
You too should watch out for him He strongly opposed our message
So they called out to the blind man, “Cheer up! Get up on your feet! Jesus is calling for you.”
But here is what I tell you. Love your enemies. Pray for those who hurt you.
They wondered which one of them would do it
So they pulled their boats up on shore Then they left everything and followed him
I am the bright Morning Star
He was amazed by the great signs and miracles he saw.
If you do, you will fulfill the law of Christ.
which is why the Northern War in our country Ethiopia was able to reach a peace treaty።
They arrived at Salamis. There they preached God’s word in the Jewish synagogues. John was with them as their helper.
“‘We played the flute for you,But you didn’t dance.
It is true that I worship the God of our people I am a follower of the Way of Jesus Those bringing charges against me call it a cult
No one should treat him badly. Send him safely on his way so he can return to me. I’m expecting him to come back along with the others.
But what if you enter a town and are not welcomed? Then go into its streets and say,
Three times I begged the Lord to take it away from me
Brothers and sisters
Teach and correct one another wisely.
The soldiers put a purple robe on Jesus. Then they twisted thorns together to make a crown. They placed it on his head.
The chief priests brought many charges against him.
Suffering Now and Glory in the Future
They won’t get very far.
Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts what God says about him
Death also has its benefits.
I laughed at his joke.
His way is new because he lives It has been opened for us through the curtain Im talking about his body
I am a stranger here.
Brothers and sisters what I mean is that the time is short
So we dont have to say anything about it
The disciples came to him. They asked, “Why do you use stories when you speak to the people?”
News about him spread through the whole countryside.
And my sickness was hard on you. But you weren’t mean to me. You didn’t make fun of me. Instead, you welcomed me as if I were an angel of God. You welcomed me as if I were Christ Jesus himself.
They will act as if they were serving God But what they do will show that they have turned their backs on Gods power Have nothing to do with these people
I will ask the Father
What I’m about to tell you is true. I won’t drink wine with you again until the day I drink it in God’s kingdom.”
I heard a loud voice from the throne
The Pharisee who had invited Jesus saw this
It said, “You are my Son, and I love you.
The disciples picked up twelve baskets of broken pieces of bread and fish
It is clear that our Lord came from the family line of Judah
Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies.
I died.
Jesus left the temple He was walking away when his disciples came up to him They wanted to call his attention to the temple buildings
Thats the price
Suppose you keep the whole law but trip over just one part of it Then you are guilty of breaking all of it
Some people in Jerusalem were thought to be important
My brothers and sisters most of you shouldnt become teachers Thats because you know that those of us who teach will be held more accountable
So he spoke to the man who could not walk I tell you he said get upTake your mat and go home
Forgive us our sins,
Blessed is the one who reads out
We will not be ashamed to meet him when he comes.
Jesus Heals a Man Born Blind
I know what you are doing I know your love and your faith I know how well you have served I know you dont give up easily In fact you are doing more now than you did at first
I saw a mighty angel calling out in a loud voice He said Who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll
Is anyone among you wise and understanding?
anything else in all creation can separate us. Nothing at all can ever separate us from God’s love. That’s because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done.
He is mean
Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cant kill the soul Instead be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell
Others do know God’s law when they sin. They will be judged by the law.
From the least important to the most importantall of them will know me
Six stone water jars stood nearby. The Jews used water from that kind of jar for special washings.
When you enter a town or village look for someone who is willing to welcome you Stay at their house until you leave
What should I do Lord I asked
He began by saying to them, “Today this passage of Scripture is coming true as you listen.”
Then unbelievers will have respect for your everyday life. And you won’t have to depend on anyone.
It is true that Christ was nailed to the cross because he was weak. But Christ lives by God’s power.
You worshiped statues of gods
But this is about your own law. It is a question of words and names.
He got into the boat that belonged to Simon. Jesus asked him to go out a little way from shore. Then he sat down in the boat and taught the people.
Then he went up and touched the coffin. Those carrying it stood still. Jesus said, “Young man, I say to you, get up!”
May the Lord give you strength in your hearts.
What is spiritual came after that
He cuts off every branch joined to me that does not bear fruit
And it didn’t rain on the land for three and a half years.
Because of Lazarus, many of the Jews were starting to follow Jesus.They were believing in him.
You must obey the authorities. Then you will not be punished. You must also obey them because you know it is right.
Then the man who had the evil spirit jumped on Sceva’s sons.
His disciples remembered what had been written. It says, “My great love for your house will destroy me.”
A light shone in the prison cell
I also have something to say to everyone else. It is from me, not a direct command from the Lord. Suppose a brother has a wife who is not a believer. If she is willing to live with him, he must not divorce her.
Who can bring any charge against God’s chosen ones? God makes us right with himself.
The seed on the path stands for Gods message in the hearts of those who hear But then the devil comes
“Let us eat and drink,
Many witnesses lied about him But their stories did not agree
You learned the good news from Epaphras. He is dear to us. He serves Christ together with us. He faithfully works for Christ and for us among you.
Grab him.
Coming out of his mouth was a sharp sword with two edges
She stood behind Jesus and cried at his feet. And she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with her hair. She kissed them and poured perfume on them.
Jesus turned to the crowd that was following him.
People like them are worthy of honor
He has made us priests who serve his God and Father.
You should not be surprised when I say You must all be born again
Jesus answered You have said so
The seventh angel blew his trumpet. There were loud voices in heaven.
after that time says the Lord
Simon answered, “Master, we’ve worked hard all night and haven’t caught anything. But because you say so, I will let down the nets.”
Daughters-in-law will be against their mothers-in-law.
Teachings for Christian Families
Holy holy holy
Sopater son of Pyrrhus from Berea went with him Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica Gaius from Derbe and Timothy went too Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia Minor also went with him
Just before dawn Paul tried to get them all to eat
The apostles did many signs and wonders among the people
In this way put your hope in the grace that lies ahead
All of you should honor marriage You should keep the marriage bed pure God will judge the person who commits adultery He will judge everyone who commits sexual sins
In just one hour she has been destroyed!’
He came to what was his own.
I would like you to welcome our sister Phoebe. She is a deacon of the church in Cenchreae.
It is true that there are all kinds of languages in the world. And they all have meaning.
One day Zechariahs group was on duty He was serving as a priest in Gods temple
I, Paul, write this greeting in my own handwriting. That’s how I prove that I am the author of all my letters. I always do it that way.
Suppose someone preaches a “good news” that is different from what you accepted. That person should be cursed by God.
So you no longer let them do anything for their parents
Beauty like this doesnt fade away God places great value on it
To those he has made right with himself he has given his glory
Jesus answered It is written Man must not live only on bread
When they confessed their sins John baptized them in the Jordan
Dont you understand Jesus asked Dont you see Nothing that enters a person from the outside can make them unclean
And because I am a prisoner most of the believers have become bolder in the Lord They now dare even more to preach the good news without fear
You will always have poor people with you. You can help them any time you want to. But you will not always have me.
My brothers and sisters suppose one of you wanders away from the truth
But suppose even we should preach a different “good news.” Suppose even an angel from heaven should preach it. Suppose it is different from the good news we gave you. Then let anyone who does that be cursed by God.
He gave them eyes that could not see.
The first time I was put on trial, no one came to help me. Everyone deserted me. I hope they will be forgiven for it.
I want you to know that the things you have been taught are true.
glory have disappeared forever
This is the one I was talking about I said A man who comes after me is more important than I am Thats because he existed before I was born
Jesus Heals Two Men Controlled by Demons
What good is it if someone gains the whole world but loses or gives up their very self?
The lake of fire is the second death.
The words I say to you I do not speak on my own authority
we never stop praying for you Our God has chosen you
Should I praise you
Their weakness was turned to strength.
Dont let anything keep you from going with them
Scripture says Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw Scripture also says Workers are worthy of their pay
That’s because he taught like one who had authority. He did not speak like their teachers of the law.
I do live in the world. But I don’t fight my battles the way the people of the world do.
So the men were sent down to Antioch. There they gathered the church together. They gave the letter to them.
While Jesus was still speaking, Judas arrived. He was one of the  disciples. A large crowd was with him. They were carrying swords and clubs. The chief priests and the elders of the people had sent them.
But God’s solid foundation stands firm. Here is the message written on it.
Those who do that will be judged.
Yes, Father. This is what you wanted to do.
Then I will be able to preach the good news in the areas beyond you. I don’t want to brag about work already done in someone else’s territory.
And you are clean. But not all of you are.”
Because of this hope they serve God with faithful and honest hearts day and night.
And I am certain that it is now alive in you also
He must control his mind and feelings He must do what is right He must be holy He must control the desires of his body
Everyone who is on the side of truth listens to me.”
Tychicus will tell you all the news about me.
“‘We played the flute for you,But you didn’t dance.We sang a funeral song,But you didn’t cry.’
But someone who works for the honor of the one who sent him is truthful
Always give thanks to God the Father for everything. Give thanks to him in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
His sheep follow him because they know his voice
Some believers had been scattered by the suffering that unbelievers had caused them. They were scattered after Stephen was killed. Those believers traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus and Antioch. But they spread the word only among Jews.
We want you to give thanks with joy to the Father He has made you fit to have what he will give to all his holy people You will all receive a share in the kingdom of light
I don't want to eat.
Then he sent some more slaves He said Tell those who were invited that I have prepared my dinner I have killed my oxen and my fattest cattle Everything is ready Come to the wedding dinner
But the man wanted to make himself look good. So he asked Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”
I like playing sports
I thank God that I speak in other languages more than all of you do
and praised God
Its true that some preach about Christ because they are jealous
Think about the results of their way of life
Paul Is Taken to the Sanhedrin
The second beast performed great signs. It even made fire come from heaven to the earth. And the fire was seen by everyone.
If you don’t, you also will be cut off.
But they opposed Paul. They treated him badly. So he shook out his clothes in protest. Then he said to them, “God’s judgment against you will be your own fault! Don’t blame me for it! From now on I will go to the Gentiles.”
Jesus saw the crowds. So he went up on a mountainside and sat down. His disciples came to him.
So God let them continue to have evil thoughts They did things they shouldnt do
Worship him who made the heavens and the earth.
How can I reach you?
So Jesus left Judea and went back again to Galilee.
I have given you authority to walk all over snakes and scorpions. You will be able to destroy all the power of the enemy. Nothing will harm you.
I don’t have time to tell about all the others. I don’t have time to talk about Gideon, Barak, Samson and Jephthah.
I am sure that he will carry it on until it is completed That will be on the day Christ Jesus returns
He got up and was baptized
Young men, I’m writing to you because you are strong.
No one on the roof should go down into the house to take anything out.
A second angel followed him
They arrived at Ephesus. There Paul said goodbye to Priscilla and Aquila. He himself went into the synagogue and talked with the Jews.
God didn’t turn his back on his people. After all, he chose them. Don’t you know what Scripture says about Elijah? He complained to God about Israel.
But the wound had been healed
To enter university Blom wanted to become a scholar but he was so annoyed that he could not succeed until now ።
“I will have mercy on whom I have mercy.
But those who dont belong to God dont listen to us
They took him to a meeting of the Areopagus. There they said to him, “What is this new teaching you’re giving us?
But what if you enter a town and are not welcomed Then go into its streets and say
Then they lowered the man on his mat through the opening in the roof tiles They lowered him into the middle of the crowd right in front of Jesus
This story has spread all around among the Jews to this day
Its rider was given power to take peace from the earth.
Your old men will have dreams.
He said to them, “It is written that the Lord said, ‘My house will be called a house where people can pray.’  But you are making it ‘a den for robbers.’ ”
He is the go-between of a new covenant. You have come to the sprinkled blood.
God did amazing miracles through Paul
He made them an example of what is going to happen to ungodly people
The Chief Shepherd will come again Then you will receive the crown of glory It is a crown that will never fade away
Agrippa said to Paul, “You may now present your case.”
A Warning against Unbelief
will be with them to keep them safe.
Turn away from godless chatter
The disciples went and woke him up. They said, “Lord! Save us! We’re going to drown!”
They replied, “Are you from Galilee too? Look into it. You will find that a prophet does not come out of Galilee.”
The apostles did many signs and wonders among the people. All the believers used to meet together at Solomon’s Porch.
We do it even though people have been created to be like God.
They will lift you up in their hands.
No one who remains joined to him keeps on sinning.
But you made me do it.
When Saul came to Jerusalem, he tried to join the believers. But they were all afraid of him. They didn’t believe he was really one of Jesus’ followers.
Another time Jesus went into the synagogue. A man with a weak and twisted hand was there.
When the leaders heard this, they became very angry. They wanted to put the apostles to death.
There should not be even a hint of sexual sin among you. Don’t do anything impure. And do not always want more and more.
The Lord God will give them light.
You will look for me,
Jesus arrived at the other side of the lake in the area of the Gadarenes Two men controlled by demons met him They came from the tombs The men were so wild that no one could pass that way
Then Paul said to him, “You pretender! God will hit you! You sit there and judge me by the law. But you yourself broke the law when you commanded them to hit me!”
I haven’t longed for anyone’s silver or gold or clothing.
I was very troubled when I wrote to you My heart was sad My eyes were full of tears I didnt want to make you sad I wanted to let you know that I love you very deeply
Why do you want to hear it again?
They will throw dust on their heads. They will weep and mourn. They will cry out,
No one who remains joined to him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has seen him or known him.
So use your bodies in a way that honors God.
Moses gave you circumcision, and so you circumcise a child on the Sabbath day. But circumcision did not really come from Moses. It came from Abraham.
At that time many will turn away from their faith They will hate each other They will hand each other over to their enemies
“Once there was a rich man. He was dressed in purple cloth and fine linen. He lived an easy life every day.
Titus is my helper He and I work together among you
“Why wasn’t this perfume sold? Why wasn’t the money given to poor people?
Meanwhile, the high priest questioned Jesus. He asked him about his disciples and his teaching.
What God commanded was too much for them
While the Lord is watching here is what I command you Have this letter read to all the brothers and sisters
Not at all
But God had mercy on him. He also had mercy on me. God spared me sadness after sadness.
The people also did not turn away from their murders,
Everything that is secret will be brought out into the open
Do everything without complaining or arguing
I am leaving at four
He even counts every hair on your head
It is written The people sat down to eat and drink Then they got up to dance wildly in front of their god
It was planned that way by the one who held it back God planned
Does this upset you
It is fair.
It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready. It will even be good if he comes in the middle of the night or toward morning.
That same day two of Jesus’ followers were going to a village called Emmaus. It was about seven miles from Jerusalem.
Salmon was the son of Nahshon.
If you love one another everyone will know you are my disciples
Those things can be seen in what he has made. So people have no excuse for what they do.
From now on, those who have a husband or wife should live as if they did not.
Our father Abraham offered his son Isaac on the altar Wasnt he considered to be right with God because of what he did
Is it proper for a woman to pray to God without covering her head?
I promise
The disciples crossed over to the other side of the lake. They had forgotten to take bread.
Paul’s Vision of the Man from Macedonia
build yourselves up in your most holy faith.
Those who heard this asked Then who can be saved
But in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit
The disciples went and woke him up They said Lord Save us Were going to drown
Their minds are twisted. As far as the faith is concerned, God doesn’t accept them.
Because of this hope they serve God with faithful and honest hearts day and night
“Anyone who welcomes you welcomes me. And anyone who welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me.
Go! I am sending you out like lambs among wolves.
Today I have become your Father.”
Paul Arrives in Jerusalem
But the Spirit gives birth to spirit.
I command you to follow these instructions.
Jesus saw him lying there. He knew that the man had been in that condition for a long time.
They aren’t fit to do anything good.
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.”
After these things I heard a roar in heaven. It sounded like a huge crowd shouting,
Then the disciples went back to where they were staying.
Then we can be without fear on the day God judges the world Love is fulfilled among us when in this world we are like Jesus
He gave himself for us
Someone ran and filled a sponge with wine vinegar He put it on a stick He offered it to Jesus to drink Leave him alone he said Lets see if Elijah comes to take him down
But Jesus has been given a greater work to do for God.
If you are the Messiah they said tell us
He will show the real reasons why people do what they do.
He went to the store.
But I have a few things against you
You know that all the believers in Asia Minor have deserted me
It is not good for the soil. And it is not good for the trash pile. It will be thrown out.
About three o’clock, Jesus cried out in a loud voice. He said, “Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?” This means “My God, my God, why have you deserted me?”
It was almost time for the Jewish Passover Feast. Many people went up from the country to Jerusalem. They went there for the special washing that would make them pure before the Passover Feast.
So the man went away In the area known as the Ten Cities he began to tell how much Jesus had done for him And all the people were amazed
Those who belong to Christ Jesus have nailed their sinful desires to his cross They dont want these things anymore
What if he were on earth Then he would not be a priest There are already priests who offer the gifts required by the law
You also are among those Gentiles who are appointed to belong to Jesus Christ
In all my prayers for all of you I always pray with joy
I tried to destroy God’s church.
On the first day of every week, each of you should put some money away. The amount should be in keeping with how much money you make. Save the money so that you won’t have to take up an offering when I come.
Jesus is not here! He has risen! Remember how he told you he would rise. It was while he was still with you in Galilee.
Then she heard about Jesus She came up behind him in the crowd and touched his clothes
Ananias the high priest heard this. So he ordered the men standing near Paul to hit him on the mouth.
The people of the island saw the snake hanging from his hand. They said to one another, “This man must be a murderer. He escaped from the sea. But the female god Justice won’t let him live.”
Dont take part in sexual sins or evil conduct
The Pharisees and Sadducees came to test Jesus. They asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
“We have the right to claim to be God’s children,” they objected. “The only Father we have is God himself.”
The people will say to the mountains Fall on us
After Paul said this he took some bread and gave thanks to God He did this where they all could see him
They are like mists driven by a storm
He came to a town in Samaria called Sychar It was near the piece of land Jacob had given his son Joseph
Brothers and sisters here is what I want you to know The good news I preached does not come from human beings
The sound of a millstone
There they nailed Jesus to the cross.
But Jesus ordered the evil spirit to leave the boy
“Or suppose a woman has ten silver coins and loses one. Won’t she light a lamp and sweep the house? Won’t she search carefully until se finds the coin?
What I received I passed on to you And it is the most important of all Here is what it is Christ died for our sins just as Scripture said he would
Whoever wants to save their life will lose it
Peter answered You are the Messiah
The official did not see him again.
Then Jesus spoke to his disciples. “The time is coming,” he said, “when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man. But you won’t see it.
Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light. There is nothing in them to make them fall into sin.
He saw that Peter and John were about to enter. So he asked them for money.
Then you will serve Christ Jesus well You will show that youve grown in the truths of the faith You will show that youve been trained by the good teaching youve obeyed
Your gold and silver have lost their brightness
You stand only because you do believe
now does not is an eighth king
The older son was in the field When he came near the house he heard music and dancing
“Get rid of the slave woman. Get rid of her son.
They also offered a sacrifice
“The son of David,” they replied.
what will happen to him?”
They said Rabbi where are you staying Rabbi means Teacher
Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane. He said to them, “Sit here while I go over there and pray.”
I am part of the people of Israel.
His appointed, chosen and faithful followers will be with him.”
Abraham didn’t do the things you want to do.
The new covenant is based on better promises
Then he prayed again. That time it rained. And the earth produced its crops.
So we don’t spend all our time looking at what we can see. Instead, we look at what we can’t see. That’s because what can be seen lasts only a short time. But what can’t be seen will last forever.
Then there came flashes of lightning rumblings thunder and a powerful earthquake
Often I have gone without sleep
So why are you turning back to those weak and worthless powers
The son of David they replied
Father, bring glory to your name!”
To those who are dying we are the smell of death To those who are being saved we are the perfume of life Who is able to do this work
To others show mercy mixed with fear of sin Hate even the clothes that are stained by the sins of those who wear them
In the synagogue there was a man controlled by a demon an evil spirit
Don’t try to grow strong by eating foods that the law requires. They have no value for the people who eat them.
You are judging only by how things look on the surface. Suppose someone is sure they belong to Christ.
My jealousy for you comes from God himself
God’s gifts of grace come in many forms. Each of you has received a gift in order to serve others. You should use it faithfully.
Think about things that are in heaven Dont think about things that are only on earth
When he came out he could not speak to them They realized he had seen a vision in the temple
Taking Sides in the Church
Where did you fall for you?
The Holy Spirit is a truthful witness about him.
You accept praise from one another. But you do not seek the praise that comes from the only God. So how can you believe?
Now I want to deal with the offering of money for the Lord’s people. Do what I told the churches in Galatia to do.
Come out of her my people
He must not be a person who likes to argue.
“Here is what I command you to write to the church in Sardis.
Enoch was the seventh man in the family line of Adam. He gave a prophecy about these people.
When he judges or makes war
I will always be secure.
But it is more important for you that I stay alive.
Ill join you later
He used to eat with the Gentiles But certain men came from a group sent by James When they arrived Peter began to draw back
You are like his building
So you must be careful to do everything they say But dont do what they do They dont practice what they preach
Serug was the son of Reu.
He has scattered those who are proud in their deepest thoughts
It is sharper than any sword that has two edges.
He did and his hand had been made as good as new
now something more important than Solomon is here
The last Adam became a spirit that gives life
Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news. She said, “I have seen the Lord!” And she told them that he had said these things to her.
Your heart will be where your riches are
Jesus and his disciples came to a house in Capernaum. There he asked them, “What were you arguing about on the road?”
The Spirit does this because you have been made right with God.
But he learned about their plan.
Does Christ take sides Did Paul die on the cross for you Were you baptized in the name of Paul
He went back inside the palace. “Where do you come from?” he asked Jesus.
On their way out of the city, they met a man from Cyrene. His name was Simon. They forced him to carry the cross.
The crowd commanded them to stop. They told them to be quiet. But the two men shouted even louder, “Lord! Son of David! Have mercy on us!”
He has the power to bring everything under his control
Brothers and sisters, think of what you were when God chose you. Not many of you were considered wise by human standards. Not many of you were powerful. Not many of you belonged to important families.
They held harps given to them by God.
My brothers and sisters you were chosen to be free But dont use your freedom as an excuse to live under the power of sin Instead serve one another in love
Do your best to get here before winter.Eubulus greets you. So do Pudens, Linus, Claudia and all the brothers and sisters.
People great or small,
even what they think they have will be taken away from them.”
Jesus Prays for Himself
“Stop complaining among yourselves,” Jesus answered.
So the law was put in charge of us until Christ came. He came so that we might be made right with God by believing in Christ.
But suppose you receive a beating for doing wrong, and you put up with it. Will anyone honor you for this? Of course not. But suppose you suffer for doing good, and you put up with it. God will praise you for this.
Scripture says,
The Son of Man will come at an hour when you dont expect him
The son wanted to fill his stomach with the food the pigs were eating But no one gave him anything
All of you must obey those who rule over you.
Scripture saysHe didnt commit any sin
He has told us that you always have happy memories of us. He has also said that you desire to see us, just as we desire to see you.
The unbelieving husband has been made holy through his wife
On the front of the ship the figures of twin gods were carved Their names were Castor and Pollux
Some of you are trying to be made right with God by obeying the law
He ran into the room
Zerubbabel was the father of AbihudAbihud was the father of EliakimEliakim was the father of Azor
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the authority of the law.
Long ago your people ate the manna in the desert, and they still died.
Jesus Is Baptized
If the building burns up, the builder will lose everything.
He has brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves.
It has to do with the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ It concerns the time when we will go to be with him
The commanding officer took the young man by the hand He spoke to him in private
When they opened the door and saw him, they were amazed.
He separated himself from the Gentiles.
You claim that my Father is your God He is the one who brings glory to me
And he will be my Son.”
told me that you are faithful to the truth They told me that you continue to live by it This news gave me great joy
the patch from the new clothes will not match the old clothes.
We have come to believe and to know that you are the Holy One of God.”
But suppose I drive out demons with the help of Gods powerful fingerThen Gods kingdom has come upon you
Those who use the things of the world should not become all wrapped up in them. The world as it now exists is passing away.
Our father Jacob gave us the well. He drank from it himself.
Stay away from godless chatter Those who take part in it will become more and more ungodly
Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding
While I am in the world I am the light of the world
In fact, here is what it means to love God. We love him by obeying his commands. And his commands are not hard to obey.
In this way the Lord showed that they were telling the truth about his grace.
If we let him keep on doing this, everyone will believe in him. Then the Romans will come. They will take away our temple and our nation.”
These ungodly people are like stains at the meals you share. They have no shame. They are shepherds who feed only themselves. They are like clouds without rain. They are blown along by the wind. They are like trees in the fall. Since they have no fruit, they are pulled out of the ground. So they die twice.
Suppose a person suffers pain unfairly because they want to obey God. This is worthy of praise.
Can I help you?
Thats what Im working for I work hard with all the strength of Christ His strength works powerfully in me
Jesus Says That the Disciples Will Turn Away
She forgets because she is so happy that a baby has been born into the world.
The spirit screamed It shook the boy wildly Then it came out of him The boy looked so lifeless that many people said Hes dead
I dont want you to be sharing with demons
Again I tell you it is hard for a camel to go through the eye of a needle But it is even harder for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God
Jesus answered How can the guests of the groom be sad while he is with them The time will come when the groom will be taken away from them Then they will fast
What I’m about to tell you is true. The people living now will certainly not pass away until all those things have happened.
The one who serves must not hold anything against anyone
But Peter and John replied, “Which is right from God’s point of view? Should we listen to you?
Suppose you sin against them in this way. Then you harm their weak sense of what is right and wrong. By doing this, you sin against Christ.
And they received the Holy Spirit
“Here is a boy with five small loaves of barley bread. He also has two small fish.
He has become Gods wisdom for us He makes us right with God He makes us holy and sets us free
Jesus Appearance Is Changed
Jesus replied, “When you enter the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him to the house he enters.
Always be joyful because you belong to the Lord
God supplies seed for the person who plants. He supplies bread for food. God will also supply and increase the amount of your seed. He will increase the results of your good works.
But I’m talking about Christ and the church.
Then some began to spit at him They blindfolded him They hit him with their fists
We believe that Jesus died and rose again When he returns many who believe in him will have died already We believe that God will bring them back with Jesus
Paul Is Accepted by the Apostles
This news about Jesus spread all through Judea and the whole country
He became the father of two sons there
Prepare the way for the Lord
They took him to the edge of the hill on which the town was built They planned to throw him off the cliff
The game is religious in content።
Then I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth
So there is still a Sabbath rest for God’s people.
“The man who used to attack us has changed.
These stand for the seven spirits of God.
Scripture says Honor your father and mother That is the first commandment that has a promise
I heard a car pull up
My goal is that their hearts may be encouraged and strengthened. I want them to be joined together in love. Then their understanding will be rich and complete. They will know the mystery of God. That mystery is Christ.
You are worth much more than birds
These are the true words of God
It is the smallest of all seeds. But when it grows, it is the largest of all garden plants. It becomes a tree. Birds come and rest in its branches.”
The God who promised is faithful.
When he suffered he didnt say he would make them suffer Instead he trusted in the God who judges fairly
So don’t be foolish. Instead, understand what the Lord wants.
Their good works continue forever.”
But it is just as I told you
People were coming and being baptized
He gathered its grapes. Then he threw them into a huge winepress. The winepress stands for God’s anger.
The Mountain of Fear and the Mountain of Joy
They are also seven kings.
Then he told them many things using stories. He said, “A farmer went out to plant his seed.
But just as sure as God is faithful our message to you is not Yes and No
Is it giving to others? Then give freely.
Suppose I do drive out demons with Beelzebuls help With whose help do your followers drive them out
It includes helping those who are in trouble A widow should spend her time doing all kinds of good things
The heads of the horses looked like lions’ heads.
“But you shouldn’t be called ‘Rabbi.’ You have only one Teacher, and you are all brothers.
At that very moment the spirit left the woman.
During that time a crowd of many thousands had gathered. There were so many people that they were stepping on one another. Jesus spoke first to his disciples. “Be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees,” he said. “They just pretend to be godly.
Paul Wants to See the Believers in Thessalonica
Only Luke is with me.
My spirit delights in God my Savior
They are not loving and kind
But everything comes from God.
His days have no beginning
Often I have gone without food.
They will refuse to bury them.
When the members of the Sanhedrin heard this they became very angry
It sounded like the roar of rushing waters
Now get up and go into the city.
How did God answer him God said
No one has ever seen God. But the One and only is God and is at the Father’s side. The one at the Father’s side has shown us what God is like.
So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.
Every wrong thing we do is sin
Melchizedek the Priest
The sins of some people are easy to see. They are already being judged. Others will be judged later.
God showed that this message is true by signs and wonders
May you have peace.
They will take away our temple and our nation.”
“The owner answered one of them. ‘Friend,’ he said, ‘I’m being fair to you. Didn’t you agree to work for the usual day’s pay?
Be holy
But Jesus became a priest with a promise God said to him
Let us come near boldly because of our faith Our hearts have been sprinkled
These things are foolish to them They cant understand them
He was an attendant of Sergius Paulus, the governor. Paulus was a man of understanding.
Everyone living in Jerusalem knows they have performed an unusual miracle
“Now I am going to Jerusalem. The Holy Spirit compels me. I don’t know what will happen to me there.
Jesus Is Brought to Pilate and Herod
Above all, here is what you must understand.
Festus talked it over with the members of his court. Then he said, “You have made an appeal to Caesar. To Caesar you will go!”
The second beast ordered people to set up a statue to honor the first beast.
There was a powerful earthquake An angel of the Lord came down from heaven The angel went to the tomb He rolled back the stone and sat on it
They replied, “Some say John the Baptist. Others say Elijah. Still others say that one of the prophets of long ago has come back to life.”
The man who saw it has been a witness about it.
Whoever hates me hates my Father also.
Suppose I go on living in my body Then I will be able to carry on my work It will bear a lot of fruit But what should I choose I dont know
“And what should we do?”
I am absolutely sure that nothing is unclean in itself The Lord Jesus has convinced me of this
Even angels long to look into these things.
Even dogs came and licked his sores. All he wanted was to eat what fell from the rich man’s table.
If anyone speaks,
Forty years passed Then an angel appeared to Moses in the flames of a burning bush This happened in the desert near Mount Sinai
“Amen.”
Men, continue to be brave. I have faith in God. It will happen just as he told me.
Blessed are those who hear it and think everything it says is important.
Night is coming Then no one can work
I had the understanding of a child.
And be thankful.
Instead, I went into Arabia.
If anyone is weak I feel weak
It was God who raised him from the dead
“Beginning with Samuel, all the prophets spoke about this. They said these days would come.
Then you will receive a lot in return
But now you know God Even better God knows you So why are you turning back to those weak and worthless powers Do you want to be slaves to them all over again
We know what it means to have respect for the Lord. So we try to help other people to understand it.
So people brought those who were sick into the streets They placed them on beds and mats They hoped that at least Peters shadow might fall on some of them as he walked by
For  years in the desert?
It is written They will rule them with an iron scepter They will break them to pieces like clay pots  Their authority is like the authority Ive received from my Father
What you learned was the truth about Jesus.
When we heard this, we all begged Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.
Jesus finished teaching his  disciples. Then he went on to teach and preach in the towns of Galilee.
Besides that I dont remember if I baptized anyone else
Dont be controlled by love for money Be happy with what you have God has said
Jesus said to them, “What I’m about to tell you is true. You must eat the Son of Man’s body and drink his blood. If you don’t, you have no life in you.
Get up the Lord said Go into Damascus
The Story of the Mustard Seed
What Im about to tell you is true You will not get out until you have paid the very last pennyAdultery
Jesus replied, “You give them something to eat.”
The person who has the Spirit can judge all things.
What Im about to tell you is true What she has done will be told anywhere the good news is preached all over the world It will be told in memory of her
That is why Scripture says
Training the body has some value But being godly has value in every way It promises help for the life you are now living and the life to come
We are seeking to be made right with God through Christ. As we do, what if we find that we who are Jews are also sinners? Does that mean that Christ causes us to sin? Certainly not!
“Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven. Only those who do what my Father in heaven wants will enter.
Barnabas wanted to take John Mark with them.
They will follow spirits that will fool them
So he gave us new life because of what Christ has done He gave us life even when we were dead in sin
John saw many Pharisees and Sadducees coming to where he was baptizing. He said to them, “You are like a nest of poisonous snakes! Who warned you to escape the coming of God’s anger?
They came to the border of Mysia From there they tried to enter Bithynia
God supplies seed for the person who plants He supplies bread for food God will also supply and increase the amount of your seed He will increase the results of your good works
A large group of people followed They crowded around him
“Do not commit adultery.” “Do not commit murder.” “Do not steal
Some wanted to arrest him
My goal is that their hearts may be encouraged and strengthened I want them to be joined together in love Then their understanding will be rich and complete They will know the mystery of God That mystery is Christ
From now on, let no one cause trouble for me. My body has marks that show I belong to Jesus.
May he do in us what is pleasing to him We can do it only with the help of Jesus Christ
I will only be passing through Macedonia
Love comes from a pure heart
Then he taught them He told them It is written that the Lord said My house will be called a house where people from all nations can pray  But you have made it a den for robbers
Should we do good
Don’t speak against God. That’s what some of the people of Israel did. And they were killed by the destroying angel.
I will pay them back  says the Lord
But in fact, you need someone to teach you all over again.
They had tails that could sting people like scorpions do.
Jesus was doing these things on the Sabbath day So the Jewish leaders began to oppose him
Death is at work in us. But life is at work in you.
One of the beast’s heads seemed to have had a deadly wound. But the wound had been healed. The whole world was amazed and followed the beast.
But they tried hard to keep him from leaving They said Stay with us It is nearly evening The day is almost over So he went in to stay with them
Jesus our priest offered one sacrifice for sins for all time Then he sat down at the right hand of God
Then the sheet was pulled up into heaven
we know that we have it.
Dont move
But they tried hard to keep him from leaving. They said, “Stay with us. It is nearly evening. The day is almost over.” So he went in to stay with them.
Who takes care of a flock but doesnt drink any of the milk
He also wrote them down.
What I’m about to tell you is true. We speak about what we know. We are witnesses about what we have seen. But still you people do not accept what we say.
You know the grace shown by our Lord Jesus Christ. Even though he was rich, he became poor to help you. Because he became poor, you can become rich.
understanding?
Suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared
The disciples said See Lord here are two swords Two swords are enough he replied
Everyone who has heard the Father and learned from him comes to me
The women who had come with Jesus from Galilee followed Joseph. They saw the tomb and how Jesus’ body was placed in it.
You will be sad, but your sadness will turn into joy.
Whoever does not accept you does not accept me
My whole body will be full of hope.
You be the judge Is it proper for a woman to pray to God without covering her head
Don’t you know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit? The Spirit is in you, and you have received the Spirit from God. You do not belong to yourselves.
It is written, “I am the God who judges people. I will pay them back,”  says the Lord.
Grab that
There is no difference between those who are Jews and those who are not
The officers reported this to the judges.
Peter was also standing with them. He was warming himself.
One of you will say to me Then why does God still blame us
Just as I told the Jews, so I am telling you now.
One was on each side of him. Jesus was in the middle.
Jesus knew everything that was going to happen to him. So he went out and asked them, “Who do you want?”
“I replied, ‘No, Lord! I will not! Nothing that is not pure and “clean” has ever entered my mouth.’
Don’t obey them only to please them when they are watching. Do it because you are slaves of Christ. Be sure your heart does what God wants.
They give life
This saying is true.
By reading about this mystery you will be able to understand what I know You will know about the mystery of Christ
Suppose I go on living in my body. Then I will be able to carry on my work. It will bear a lot of fruit. But what should I choose? I don’t know!
I dont want you to have anything to worry about
And then the third one married her. One after another, the seven brothers married her. They all died. None left any children.
But you havent obeyed it
If you make their work a heavy load, it won’t do you any good.
But when they came to Jesus they saw that he was already dead
The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun The sun was allowed to burn people with fire
The Holy Spirit had not yet come on any of them. They had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
I often went from one synagogue to another to have them punished. I tried to force them to speak evil things against Jesus. All I wanted to do was hurt them. I even went looking for them in the cities of other lands.
Jesus said, “Woman, believe me. A time is coming when you will not worship the Father on this mountain or in Jerusalem.
He welcomed them and spoke to them about Gods kingdom
God’s plan will be carried out. This will happen when the seventh angel is ready to blow his trumpet. God told all this to the prophets who served him long ago.”
“When you enter a house, first say,
So I put up with everything for the good of Gods chosen people Then they also can be saved Christ Jesus saves them He gives them glory that will last forever
They must gently teach those who are against them Maybe God will give a change of heart to those who are against you That will lead them to know the truth
Do not seal up the words of the prophecy in this book These things are about to happen
Live like this as you look forward to the day of God Living like this will make the day come more quickly On that day fire will destroy the heavens Its heat will melt everything in them
They take over the houses of widows. They say long prayers to show off. God will punish these men very much.”
With our tongues we praise our Lord and Father With our tongues we curse people We do it even though people have been created to be like God
They would have put on the rough clothing people wear when theyre sad They would have sat down in ashes
When they heard that he was speaking to them in Aramaic they became very quiet
They cant die anymore They are like the angels They are Gods children They will be given a new form of life when the dead rise
Then what will happen to ungodly people and sinners
You have heard that Job was patient
A voice from heaven said This is my Son and I love him I am very pleased with him
“Aren’t you the Egyptian who turned some of our people against their leaders? Didn’t you lead four thousend terrorists out into the desert some time ago?”
He makes people holy. It also comes through believing the truth.
Jesus became wiser and stronger.
When the leaders heard this, they became very angry.
Pray that the Lord’s message will spread quickly. Pray that others will honor it just as you did.
The God who chooses you does not keep you from obeying the truth.
“He will reply, ‘What I’m about to tell you is true. Anything you didn’t do for one of the least important of these, you didn’t do for me.’
the twelve disciples But one of you is a devil
Then I will never be thirsty And I wont have to keep coming here to get water
I have told you now before it happens Then when it does happen you will believe
Abraham’s Faith Made Him Right with God
God raised us up with Christ
You made them a little lower than the angels
Jesus Speaks a Second Time About His Coming Death
How terrible for you who laugh now
But if you can get your master to set you free do it
“But the people paid no attention. One went away to his field. Another went away to his business.
God himself will be with them and be their God
You know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power
The stars have still another.
But these people say evil things against whatever they don’t understand. And the very things they do understand will destroy them. That’s because they are like wild animals that can’t think for themselves. Instead, they do what comes naturally to them.
Then Paul stood up in the meeting of the Areopagus. He said, “People of Athens! I see that you are very religious in every way.
You Samaritans worship what you do not know.
He may have been ill
Because of his faith he worshiped God. Jacob worshiped as he leaned on the top of his walking stick.
God gave them the same gift he gave those of us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ
Because of what Christ has done, you believe in God. It was God who raised him from the dead. And it was God who gave him glory. So your faith and hope are in God.
You know what the commandments say Do not commit adultery Do not commit murder Do not steal Do not be a false witness Honor your father and mother
We feel sure we have done what is right We desire to live as we should in every way
Ask and you will receive what you ask for
His master felt sorry for him. He forgave him what he owed and let him go.
One day Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee. There he saw two brothers, Simon Peter and his brother Andrew. They were throwing a net into the lake, because they were fishermen.
Pay their expenses so they can have their heads shaved.
“When you give to needy people, do not announce it by having trumpets blown. Do not be like those who only pretend to be holy. They announce what they do in the synagogues and on the streets. They want to be honored by other people. What I’m about to tell you is true. They have received their complete reward.
They called out to the mountains and rocks Fall on us Hide us from the face of the one who sits on the throne Hide us from the anger of the Lamb
Enoch had faith. So he was taken from this life.
Here are the beliefs and way of life that God our Father accepts as pure and without fault. When widows are in trouble, take care of them. Do the same for children who have no parents. And don’t let the world make you impure.
Then they should consider again that we belong to Christ just as much as they do
So we know that God loves us
When Jesus said that one of the officials nearby slapped him in the face
It has now been made known through the coming of our Savior Christ Jesus He has broken the power of death Because of the good news he has brought life out into the light That life never dies
Tell Archippus Be sure that you complete the work the Lord gave you to do
He is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy.”
Kenan was the son of Enosh.
That’s why a woman should have authority over her own head. She should have this because of the angels.
So love does everything the law requires.
They are already being judged.
Finally, two other witnesses came forward.
God had said to him
“Nazareth! Can anything good come from there?” Nathanael asked.
Again the high priest asked him, “Are you the Messiah? Are you the Son of the Blessed One?”
Suppose people think their beliefs and how they live are both right But they dont control what they say Then they are fooling themselves Their beliefs and way of life are not worth anything at all
Then the devil led Jesus up to a high place. In an instant, he showed Jesus all the kingdoms of the world.
I serve the church God appointed me to bring the complete word of God to you
When they had nailed him to the cross, they divided up his clothes by casting lots.
He stood beside me and said, ‘Brother Saul, receive your sight!’ At that very moment I was able to see him.
Again and again they hit him on the head with a stick They spit on him They fell on their knees and pretended to honor him
He cuts off every branch joined to me that does not bear fruit. He trims every branch that does bear fruit. Then it will bear even more fruit.
So obey God Stand up to the devil He will run away from you
They ate as much as they wanted They needed to make the ship lighter So they threw the rest of the grain into the sea
That’s because their eating is not based on faith.
It is still true that some people will enjoy this rest.
I went because God showed me what he wanted me to do. I spoke in private to those who are respected as leaders. I told them the good news that I preach among the Gentiles. I wanted to be sure I wasn’t running my race for any purpose. And I wanted to know that I had not been running my race for any purpose.
It is kind.
Then your whole body also is full of light.
Does anyone believe in me? Then, just as Scripture says, rivers of living water will flow from inside them.”
and there in front of me was a black horse
What we have received is not the spirit of the world. We have received the Spirit who is from God.
When Jesus heard this he was amazed He said to those following him What Im about to tell you is true In Israel I have not found anyone whose faith is so strong
They said that the widows of the Greek Jews were not being taken care of. They weren’t getting their fair share of food each day.
God, who looks into our hearts, knows the mind of the Spirit.
The people of Israel had faith So they passed through the Red Sea
So keep watch You do not know the day or the hour that the groom will come
I tell you this. On judgment day it will be easier for Sodom than for that town.
Im glad when I am weak but you are strong I pray that there will be no more problems among you
They found him on the other side of the lake
“But here is what I tell you who are listening. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you.
I want to see a movie.
I have to wake Abraham up.
I continued working.
What is spiritual did not come first. What is earthly came first. What is spiritual came after that.
Suppose nothing had been wrong with that first covenant. Then no one would have looked for another covenant.
Remain strong in it.
I don’t want to see you now while I am just passing through.
Who has kept you from obeying the truth
And without the help of the Holy Spirit no one can say Jesus is Lord
The builder will be saved but only like one escaping through the flames
Paul and Barnabas started to leave the synagogue. The people invited them to say more about these things on the next Sabbath day.
don’t be surprised by the terrible things happening to you.
And you have seen what the Lord finally did for him.
I didnt want to make you sad I wanted to let you know that I love you very deeply
There they met with the brothers and sisters. They told them to be brave. Then they left.
Not very far away, some women were watching. Mary Magdalene was among them. Mary, the mother of the younger James and of Joseph, was also there. So was Salome.
So I do not run like someone who doesnt run toward the finish line
I have not stopped thanking God for you I always remember you in my prayers
I don’t know if his body was taken up or not. Only God knows.
James and John came to Jesus. They were the sons of Zebedee. “Teacher,” they said, “we would like to ask you for a favor.”
He got up and ordered the wind to stop He said to the waves Quiet Be still Then the wind died down And it was completely calm
“The Jewish people all know how I have lived ever since I was a child. They know all about me from the beginning of my life. They know how I lived in my own country and in Jerusalem.
Twelve they replied
Then he called the believers and especially the widows. He brought her to them. They saw that she was alive.
I’m being held in chains because of the good news.
Let some of your leaders come with me. If the man has done anything wrong, they can bring charges against him there.”
So the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin.”
The people were all filled with wonder and praised God. “A great prophet has appeared among us,”
The bride belongs to the groom. The friend who helps the groom waits and listens for him. He is full of joy when he hears the groom’s voice. That joy is mine, and it is now complete.
“But I am going there to wake him up.”
He talked and argued with the Greek Jews
All the people were listening Jesus said to his disciples
If we claim we have not sinned we are calling God a liar
In the same way, after the supper he took the cup. He said, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. It is poured out for you.
Instructions About Widows Elders and Slaves
But he didn’t want to go right now. He will go when he can.
Do everything you say or do in the name of the Lord Jesus Always give thanks to God the Father through Christ
I’m writing this to you so that you will not sin.
What a terrible failure I am! Who will save me from this sin that brings death to my body?
Scripture says The earth belongs to the Lord And so does everything in it
Some were killed with stones. Some were sawed in two. Some were killed by swords. They went around wearing the skins of sheep and goats. They were poor. They were attacked. They were treated badly.
The seed the farmer plants is Gods message
“Do you understand what you’re reading?” Philip asked.
I will make you happy
here is what I hope.
Because of his faith Moses left Egypt It wasnt because he was afraid of the kings anger
Give thanks no matter what happens.
Jesus Comes to Jerusalem as King
What should we say then Should we keep on sinning so that Gods grace can increase
The first time I was put on trial no one came to help me Everyone deserted me
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. People all over the world are talking about your faith.
You look pale today
But it is raised in power.
Suddenly there was a powerful earthquake. It shook the prison from top to bottom. All at once the prison doors flew open. Everyone’s chains came loose.
I do good deeds.”
He said that the Messiah would not be left in the place of the dead.
Jesus and his disciples went to a place called Gethsemane Jesus said to them Sit here while I pray
Moses was faithful in everything he did in the house of God.
Dear friends, remember what the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ said would happen.
The water will come from the spring of the water of life. It doesn’t cost anything!
How can you say this while there is a piece of wood in your own eye
Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan River He wanted to be baptized by John
Brothers and sisters what if someone is caught in a sin Then you who live by the Spirit should correct that person
The master of that slave will come back on a day the slave doesnt expect him He will return at an hour the slave does not know
Then Jesus told them a story
But she doesn’t want to.
“ ‘What should I do, Lord?’ I asked.
Here is how God showed his love among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world. He sent him so we could receive life through him.
But I still had no peace of mind I couldnt find my brother Titus there
False prophets belong to the world.
Be at peace
“But he was made king and returned home. Then he sent for the slaves he had given the money to. He wanted to find out what they had earned with it.
Then Simon answered Pray to the Lord for me Pray that nothing you have said will happen to me
It is fine to be committed to something if the purpose is good And you shouldnt be committed only when I am with you You should always be committed
Terror struck those who saw them.
The angel is standing on the sea and on the land. Go and take the scroll from him. It is lying open in his hand.”
That’s because God chose us to live pure lives.
The women were terrified. They bowed down with their faces to the ground. Then the men said to them, “Why do you look for the living among the dead?
“But Abraham replied, ‘Son, remember what happened in your lifetime. You received your good things. Lazarus received bad things. Now he is comforted here, and you are in terrible pain.
So I want even more to send him to you. Then when you see him again, you will be glad. And I won’t worry so much.
Suppose a person suffers pain unfairly because they want to obey God This is worthy of praise
They killed the prophets
Im going out to fish Simon Peter told them
An elder must be without blame.
That means to bring Christ up from the dead.
Now here is my decision We should not make it hard for the Gentiles who are turning to God
I, Tertius, wrote down this letter. I greet you as a believer in the Lord.
So God does what he wants to do
Jesus said to them The kings of the Gentiles hold power over their people And those who order them around call themselves Protectors
They have only one purpose.
The Son is the exact likeness of God who cant be seen The Son is first and he is over all creation
Jesus replied, “Foxes have dens. Birds have nests. But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head.”
Then you wont be proud that you follow one of us instead of the other
You are right Jesus said
I and the Father are one.”
They had also overcome its statue and the number of its name.
He poured his grace on us. By giving us great wisdom and understanding,
Come in
He continues to live in you So you dont need anyone to teach you
I, Paul, am writing this greeting with my own hand.
Then Jesus said Didnt I tell you that if you believe
Our natural bodies dont last forever They must be dressed with what does last forever
Have a lot of respect for them Love them because of what they do Live in peace with one another
Havent I seen Jesus our Lord
Don’t you remember the seven loaves for the ,? Don’t you remember how many baskets of pieces you gathered?
It is the glory of the One and only who came from the Father
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there across from the tomb.
Nothing that is not pure and clean has ever entered my mouth
He has gone into heaven. He is at God’s right hand. Angels, authorities and powers are under his control.
Terror will make people faint They will be worried about what is happening in the world The sun moon and stars will be shaken from their places
Jesus’ mother and brothers came to see him.
Here are the words of Jesus, who has the sharp sword with two edges. He says,
I dont think Im in any way less important than those super-apostles
Paul Is Taken to the Sanhedrin
John baptized with water.
But his disciples thought he meant natural sleep
This was before John was put in prison.
Do to others as you want them to do to you
“Has anyone ever given anything to God,
They arent fit to do anything good
All of them ate and were satisfied. The disciples picked up twelve baskets of leftover pieces.
Are we trying to make the Lord jealous? Are we stronger than he is?
But when the renters saw the son they talked the matter over This is the one who will receive all the owners property someday they said Lets kill him Then everything will be ours
He was hard on those who stopped following him.
Thats enough for now he said You may leave When I find the time I will send for you
From noon until three oclock the whole land was covered with darkness
The Holy Spirit is a truthful witness about him
The Messiah comes from their family line
They will never leave it again
Felix sent for Paul and listened to him speak about faith in Christ Jesus
Its true
You love having people greet you with respect in the market.
Right away Jesus called out to them, “Be brave! It is I. Don’t be afraid.”
I hope somehow to stir up my own people to want what you have. Perhaps I can save some of them.
The fifth angel blew his trumpet
People Who Teach Lies or Love Money
He came and preached peace to you who were far away. He also preached peace to those who were near.
Anyone who does not listen to him will be completely cut off from their people
I will take away their sins.”
It was the same in the days of Lot People were eating and drinking They were buying and selling They were planting and building
The law brings God’s anger. Where there is no law, the law can’t be broken.
But suppose your eyes cant see well Then your whole body will be full of darkness If the light inside you is darkness then it is very dark
I have given them your word. The world has hated them. That’s because they are not part of the world any more than I am.
He made a promise to our father Abraham.
While Peter was still speaking, a bright cloud covered them. A voice from the cloud said, “This is my Son, and I love him. I am very pleased with him. Listen to him!”
They must control themselves They must have true faith They must love others They must not give up
No widow should be put on the list of widows unless she is more than  years old.
Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping Couldnt you men keep watch with me for one hour he asked Peter
The Jews asked him to spend more time with them. But he said no.
The words “once more” point out that what can be shaken can be taken away. I’m talking about created things. Then what can’t be shaken will remain.
Crispus was the synagogue leader He and everyone living in his house came to believe in the Lord
“What I say about myself is more important than what John says about me.
I’m saying those things for your own good. I’m not trying to hold you back. I want you to be free to live in a way that is right. I want you to give yourselves completely to the Lord.
Suppose you start building and are not able to finish Then everyone who sees what you have done will laugh at you
Suppose someone did not obey the law of Moses. And suppose two or three witnesses made charges against them. That person would die without mercy.
Most of all he is the Savior of those who believe
No they answered
And the Spirit doesn’t make us weak and fearful.
Lord Peter asked Why cant I follow you now
So were James and John the sons of Zebedee who worked with Simon
God treats everyone the same.
Being Humble Like Christ
Then I remembered the Lord’s words. ‘John baptized with water,’ he had said. ‘But you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’
But the renters said to each other This is the one who will receive all the owners property someday Come lets kill him Then everything will be ours
We also know that the Son of God has come
“Who are these people dressed in white robes?”
Are you greater than our father Abraham He died
On judgment day it will be easier for Tyre and Sidon than for you.
They too will drink the wine of Gods great anger His wine has been poured full strength into the cup of his anger They will be burned with flaming sulfur The holy angels and the Lamb will see it happen
“The perfume could have been sold at a high price. The money could have been given to poor people.”
All this came about because of the lack of peace።
She was the wife of Herods brother
Not very far away some women were watching Mary Magdalene was among them Mary the mother of the younger James and of Joseph was also there So was Salome
He was raised from the dead Now our lives can be useful to God
They renewed my spirit and yours also People like them are worthy of honor
Forgive and you will be forgiven
Is it a question to eat and stay overnight?
The high priest and all his companions were Sadducees. They were very jealous of the apostles.
He chooses you to enter his glorious kingdom
Greet all God’s people. They belong to Christ Jesus.
All of them try very hard to obey the law
Then he went up to the temple courtyard and began to teach
Scripture also says, “Workers are worthy of their pay.”
That’s because a person who doubts is like a wave of the sea. The wind blows and tosses them around.
When Jesus entered Capernaum, a Roman commander came to him. He asked Jesus for help.
My brothers and sisters dont be surprised if the world hates you
I command you to follow these instructions
Jesus prayed while he lived on earth He made his appeal with sincere cries and tears
So he promised to give her anything she asked for.
Fine linen stands for the right things that Gods holy people do
Follow the lead of every human authority Do this for the Lords sake Obey the emperor He is the highest authority
I say this to shame you Is it possible that no one among you is wise enough to judge matters between believers
So is the law opposed to Gods promises
We are talking about a priest who is from a different tribe. No one from that tribe has ever served at the altar.
Even your parents, brothers, sisters, relatives and friends will hand you over to the authorities. The authorities will put some of you to death.
Brothers and sisters we have a duty
You do not belong to yourselves.
Suppose one of you says to them
The Jews in the crowd pushed Alexander to the front.
Apollos wanted to go to Achaia. The brothers and sisters agreed with him.
They wont listen to the mere human commands of people who turn away from the truth
But they shouted, “Take him away! Take him away! Crucify him!”
Go I am sending you out like lambs among wolves
Just then a woman came up behind Jesus She had a sickness that made her bleed It had lasted for  years She touched the edge of his clothes
So the Gentiles should share their earthly blessings with the Jews.
In every way you have proved that you are not guilty in that matter
Or did the word of God begin with you
He gave us complete faith in what we were preaching.
Does what we say make sense? If so, it is because we want to serve you.
When Jesus heard this, he said, “This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God’s glory.
Because of the authority Christ has given me, I could be bold. I could order you to do what you should do anyway.
Everything that is not based on faith is sin.
Do not make Gods Holy Spirit mourn The Holy Spirit is the proof that you belong to God And the Spirit is the proof that God will set you completely free
If they do, they will be put to shame for speaking like this about you.
But we are looked down on!
You will look for me.
Then I dont find you guilty either Jesus said
But Jesus hid himself.
Still other seed fell on good soil.
Then Jesus ordered him Dont tellanyone
I have been hungry and thirsty.
We have heard that some of our people came to you and caused trouble. You were upset by what they said. But we had given them no authority to go.
When you are invited into a house, stay there until you leave town.
The Wise Men Visit Jesus
asked him to give me the little scroll.
You hear the sound it makes
So he got into the boat and left
The other sat where his feet had been placed
I was a stranger. But you did not invite me in. I needed clothes. But you did not give me any. I was sick and in prison. But you did not take care of me.’
I am the bright Morning Star.”
I watched as the Lamb broke open the sixth seal. There was a powerful earthquake.
Are they Abraham’s children? So am I.
They do not allow people to get married. They order them not to eat certain foods.
Peter and John were allowed to leave They went back to their own people They reported everything the chief priests and the elders had said to them
You think these people are drunk.
But if I do judge, what I decide is true. This is because I am not alone. I stand with the Father, who sent me.
At the end of the fourty days he was hungry
Another was Joanna the wife of Chuza He was the manager of Herods household
Correct them with full authority.
He chooses you to enter his glorious kingdom.
The student is not better than the teacher. But everyone who is completely trained will be like their teacher.
God does not treat people differently. Those people added nothing to my message.
So I went to the angel
No lies ever came out of his mouth
The Pharisees went out They made plans to trap Jesus with his own words
Every house is built by someone. But God is the builder of everything.
You are citizens together with Gods people
God shows his anger from heaven It is against all the godless
We are made right with God by putting our faith in Jesus Christ
The person who eats everything must not look down on the one who does not
But the Lord is faithful.
In a loud voice they were saying,
Again I ask Didnt Israel understand First Moses says
You have found out that they are liars
So you see, those who have faith are children of Abraham.
Early on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb. It was still dark.
So anyone who chooses to be the world’s friend becomes God’s enemy.
He has given the Son the task of judging
When Simon Peter saw this, he fell at Jesus’ knees.
After that he appeared to more than five hundred brothers and sisters at the same time
The person who says this is the great enemy of Christ. They say no to the Father and the Son.
You gave them to me
He went with Peter and John into the temple courtyards.
The world can’t accept him.
The manager told him Take your bill Sit down quickly and change it to  gallons
“You look at the bit of sawdust in your friend’s eye. But you pay no attention to the piece of wood in your own eye.
over all these good things put on love.
Pay her back double for what she has done
We have now heard for ourselves
Suppose a man has long hair. Doesn’t the very nature of things teach you that it is shameful?
His head was brought in on a big plate and given to the girl. She then carried it to her mother.
They are the kind of worshipers the Father is looking for.
But no one laid a hand on him.
Then Jesus gave him back to his mother
Then he fell on his knees He cried out
But he said no
God saved Lot a man who did what was right Lot was shocked by the evil conduct of people who didnt obey Gods laws
So Jesus left Judea and went back again to Galilee
But she has poured this perfume on my feet.
has become the most important stone of all.
Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home Then when you come together you will not be judged
He anointed us
He will set himself up in God’s temple.
On one of those days, Jesus went out to a mountainside to pray.
Anyone who does what God wants is my brother or sister or mother.”
His mother was Jewish and a believer.
The moon was under her feet On her head she wore a crown of  stars
So then what greater riches will come when all Israel turns to God!
While the son was still a long way off his father saw him He was filled with tender love for his son He ran to him He threw his arms around him and kissed him
Give praise to the God who is able to keep you from falling into sin. He will bring you into his heavenly glory without any fault. He will bring you there with great joy.
I wont spare any of the others either
When Pilate heard this he asked if the man was from Galilee
But many who are first will be last. And the last will be first.”
Dont you know what Scripture says
Will anyone honor you for this? Of course not.
If so, I have forgiven it for your benefit, knowing that Christ is watching.
In fact, he is the one speaking with you.”
It is in keeping with the prophecies once made about you.
Even handkerchiefs and aprons that had touched him were taken to those who were sick.
But you sin if you dont treat everyone the same
So you are a king then said Pilate
Fasting
They traveled all across the island until they came to Paphos.
An angel of the Lord spoke to Philip. “Go south to the desert road,” he said. “It’s the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.”
The thoughts of many hearts will be known
Sin will no longer control you like a master. That’s because the law does not rule you. God’s grace has set you free.
It includes worshiping statues of gods and
I’m out of my mind to talk like this!
We work together with God So we are asking you not to receive Gods grace and then do nothing with it
Doing Good Because of the Good News
He wanted to find men and women who belonged to the Way of Jesus. The letters would allow him to take them as prisoners to Jerusalem.
I know you are looking forward to this.
Then a war began in heaven Michael and his angels fought against the dragon And the dragon and his angels fought back
This is how you should prayOur Father in heavenmay your name be honored
So the captain went with his officers and brought the apostles back.
Christ must rule until he has put all his enemies under his control.
At that time someone may say to you, ‘Look! Here is the Messiah!’ Or, ‘Look! There he is!’ Do not believe it.
When he said this the Pharisees and the Sadducees started to argue They began to take sides
The Lord told him Go to the house of Judas on Straight Street Ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul
He was not ashamed that I was being held by chains
From Paphos Paul and his companions sailed to Perga in Pamphylia
“The student is not better than the teacher. A slave is not better than his master.
In Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate is a pool. In the Aramaic language it is called Bethesda.
I will forgive their evil ways.
When he suffered, he didn’t say he would make them suffer. Instead, he trusted in the God who judges fairly.
Many are bragging the way the people of the world do. So I will brag like that too. You are so wise! You gladly put up with fools!
Among them were Barnabas Simeon and Lucius from Cyrene Simeon was also called Niger Another was Manaen He had been brought up with Herod the ruler of Galilee Saul was among them too
The great dragon was thrown down to the earth, and his angels with him.
Then Jesus said to him Get up Pick up your mat and walk
So it doesn’t surprise us that Satan’s servants also pretend to be serving God.
So how will you believe if I speak about heavenly things?
They left that place and passed through Galilee. Jesus did not want anyone to know where they were.
We know that the whole world is under the control of the evil one
Bring your son here
The light produces what is completely good right and true
Every valley will be filled in
Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts what God says about him.
You are doing what your own father does
You were living in your sins and lawless ways But in fact you were dead
Jacob’s well was there.
Instead, I pray this so that you will do what is right, even if it seems I have failed.
Prophecy never came simply because a prophet wanted it to.
I say these things while I am still in the world. I say them so that those you gave me can have the same joy that I have.
Be kind and tender to one another.
Then a voice came from heaven. It said, “I have brought glory to my name. I will bring glory to it again.”
Their idea of pleasure is to have wild parties in the middle of the day
But they tried to kill him
and gentle and having control of oneself There is no law against things of that kind
Right away her bleeding stopped She felt in her body that her suffering was over
“The Gentiles must be circumcised. They must obey the law of Moses.”
The second angel blew his trumpet
Did I fight wild animals in Ephesus with nothing more than human hopes?
John the Baptist’s Head Is Cut Off
Then everything will be clean for you
Because of his faith Abel was praised as a godly man
Glory and power belong to him for ever and ever. Amen.
Pilate wanted to satisfy the crowd. So he let Barabbas go free. He ordered that Jesus be whipped. Then he handed him over to be nailed to a cross.
Further, my brothers and sisters, be joyful because you belong to the Lord! It is no trouble for me to write about some important matters to you again. If you know about them, you will have a safe path to follow.
Here is a saying that you can trust.
But it was good of you to share in my troubles
I have fought the good fight I have finished the race I have kept the faith
It also includes hatred and
By your words you will be found guilty or not guilty.”
If you don’t remain joined to me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and dries up. Branches like those are picked up. They are thrown into the fire and burned.
I went to Troas to preach the good news about Christ. There I found that the Lord had opened a door of opportunity for me.
My goal while I was with you was to talk about only one thing. And that was Jesus Christ and his death on the cross.
Gods people share in what belongs to his Son Their names are written in heaven
Im looking out for the interests of others I do it so that they might be saved
But Im so tricky I have caught you by tricking you Or so you think
Is it proper for a woman to pray to God without covering her head
yet he opened my eyes.
It is true that these rules seem wise. Because of them, people give themselves over to their own kind of worship. They pretend they are humble. They treat their bodies very badly.
The God who will destroy them has not been sleeping.
But the Holy Spirit brought him back to life
I don’t have anything certain to write about him to His Majesty. So I have brought him here today. Now all of you will be able to hear him. King Agrippa, it will also be very good for you to hear him. As a result of this hearing, I will have something to write.
So be watchful and control yourselves completely In this way put your hope in the grace that lies ahead This grace will be brought to you when Jesus Christ returns
But you have received the Holy Spirit from God
In fact, we felt as if we were under the sentence of death.
God is my witness that I long for all of you I love you with the love that Christ Jesus gives
May the Lord who gives peace gives you peace at all times and in every way May the Lord be with all of you
They’ll say to the hills, “Cover us!” ’
But the chief priests and the elders talked the crowd into asking for Barabbas and having Jesus put to death
They said Well go with you
The one who sat there shone like jasper and ruby. Around the throne was a rainbow shining like an emerald.
When they finished James spoke up Brothers he said listen to me
But whoever has doubts about what they eat is guilty if they eat
I saw an angel standing in the sun
you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters You are faithful even though they are strangers to you
They said You went into the house of Gentiles You ate with them
Herod planned to put Peter on public trial It would take place after the Passover Feast
I the elder am writing this letter
They were not pleased with him at all.
The one who sent me is with me
But since sexual sin is happening, each man should sleep with his own wife. And each woman should sleep with her own husband.
Jesus Is Nailed to a Cross
the angel told him. “Follow me.”
And the Judge is standing at the door!
Gods people need to be very patient They are the ones who obey Gods commands And they remain faithful to Jesus
“You have plenty of grain stored away for many years. Take life easy. Eat, drink and have a good time.” ’
The New Jerusalem is the Bride of the Lamb
He will send the Messiah. Jesus has been appointed as the Messiah for you.
I wish you were either one or the other!
Godly sadness causes us to turn away from our sins and be saved And we are certainly not sorry about that But worldly sadness brings death
John replied A person can receive only what God gives them from heaven
After that he poured water into a large bowl Then he began to wash his disciples feet He dried them with the towel that was wrapped around him
“Go to the village ahead of you. As soon as you get there, you will find a donkey’s colt tied up. No one has ever ridden it. Untie it and bring it here.
They have tasted the good things of Gods word They have tasted the powers of the age to come
I am going to send you what my Father has promised. But for now, stay in the city. Stay there until you have received power from heaven.”
Circumcision and uncircumcision dont mean anything What really counts is that the new creation has come
Suppose someone slaps you on one cheek. Let them slap you on the other cheek as well. Suppose someone takes your coat. Don’t stop them from taking your shirt as well.
But Jesus turned and commanded them not to do it.
When you give to needy people dont let your left hand know what your right hand is doing
Others have done the hard work
We stayed there several days.
MATTHEW
In fact, it is just the opposite. The parts of the body that seem to be weaker are the ones we can’t do without.
Three times I begged the Lord to take it away from me.
But in the other case, it is collected by the one who is said to be living.
Then I heard the noise of a huge crowd. It sounded like the roar of rushing waters and like loud thunder. The people were shouting,
His body was put to death
When Moses saw the bush he was amazed He went over for a closer look There he heard the Lord say
I will speak about things that were hidden since the world was made
The  returned with joy. They said, “Lord, even the demons obey us when we speak in your name.”
Dear children you belong to God You have not accepted the teachings of the false prophets Thats because the one who is in you is powerful He is more powerful than the one who is in the world
If a family is divided, it can’t stand.
So write down what you have seen Write about what is happening now and what will happen later
But then the chosen time came. God sent his Son.
We have heard that some of our people came to you and caused trouble You were upset by what they said But we had given them no authority to go
The people ate and were satisfied. After that, the disciples picked up seven baskets of leftover pieces.
So his faith made him right with God.”
Now your life is hidden with Christ in God
As it is there are many parts
He is the Root of David
Some have turned from these teachings They would rather talk about things that have no meaning
Give us each day our daily bread
But I am sending the brothers. Then our bragging about you in this matter will have a good reason. You will be ready, just as I said you would be.
in what you believe
My brothers and sisters can this kind of faith save them
who is my neighbor?”
When the name of Jesus is spoken, everyone will kneel down to worship him.
God is able to join them to the tree again
In the Law Moses commanded us to kill such women by throwing stones at them
Jesus answered, “Can you make the friends of the groom fast while he is with them?
The men traveling with Saul stood there.
This happened three times
They must hold on to the deep truths of the faith. Even their own minds tell them to do that.
He fell down headfirst in the field His body burst open
This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about. His mother Mary and Joseph had promised to get married. But before they started to live together, it became clear that she was going to have a baby. She became pregnant by the power of the Holy Spirit.
You do not know him
Remember when I first preached the good news to you Remember I did that because I was sick
But no one can tame the tongue It is an evil thing that never rests It is full of deadly poison
After that, he appeared to more than five hundred brothers and sisters at the same time.
I know that his command leads to eternal life.
But the commander couldn’t get the facts because of all the noise.
A royal official was there His son was sick in bed at Capernaum
Dont give up when times are hard
The Root of Jesse will grow up quickly He will rule over the nations
The four living creatures said,
You study the Scriptures carefully. You study them because you think they will give you eternal life.
Jesus went from there to a place near Tyre. He entered a house. He did not want anyone to know where he was. But he could not keep it a secret.
When evening came, Jesus was at the table with his  disciples.
The next day Peter went with the three men Some of the believers from Joppa went along
Because of Adam all people die So because of Christ all will be made alive
Peter replied Man I dont know what youre talking about Just as he was speaking the rooster crowed
Peter went with them. When he arrived, he was taken upstairs to the room. All the widows stood around him crying. They showed him the robes and other clothes Dorcas had made before she died.
The sun has one kind of glory. The moon has another kind. The stars have still another. And one star’s glory is different from that of another star.
“Do not be afraid. I bring you good news.
You have heard that it was said Love your neighbor  Hate your enemy
Blessed are those who show mercy.
Fellow Israelites help us they shouted
They were not afraid of the kings command
They showed him the robes and other clothes Dorcas had made before she died.
Jesus told a story to some people who were sure they were right with God. They looked down on everyone else.
One of them was an authority on the law So he tested Jesus with a question
Hold firmly to it.
The voice spoke to him a second time. It said, “Do not say anything is not pure that God has made ‘clean.’ ”
You are worthy to receive glory and honor and power
I remember seeing her.
They try to fool others. No one does these things more than the circumcision group.
We wanted to come to you
Stay down
Here is what people who suffer because of God’s plan should do.
Suppose anyone is ashamed of me and my words among these adulterous and sinful people Then the Son of Man will be ashamed of them when he comes in his Fathers glory with the holy angels
The Jews who killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets also forced us to leave. They do not please God. They are enemies of everyone.
The one who sent me doesn’t want me to lose anyone he has given me. He wants me to raise them up on the last day.
But you sin if you don’t treat everyone the same.
Take it.
When God made his promise he gave his word He did this so we would have good reason not to give up Instead we have run to take hold of the hope set before us
The world and its evil desires are passing away But whoever does what God wants them to do lives forever
Then the seven angels who had the seven trumpets got ready to blow them
Blessed is anyone who does not give up their faith because of me.”
But the dragon wasnt strong enough
What if God chose to show his great anger What if he chose to make his power known But he put up with the people he was angry with They were made to be destroyed
He will be able to prove that people who oppose it are wrong.
Jesus replied  Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul Love him with all your mind
Love must be honest and true
Now he has come here to arrest all those who worship you The chief priests have given him authority to do this
They are like a man who builds a house
But I don’t want to use paper and ink. I hope I can visit you instead.
You cant come where I am going
Move over.
Here are the beliefs and way of life that God our Father accepts as pure and without fault
One of the high priest’s slaves was a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off.
I already warned you during my second visit
“But, Lord,” said Martha, the sister of the dead man, “by this time there is a bad smell. Lazarus has been in the tomb for four days.”
Also believe that the Father is in me
And suppose you do nothing about what they really need.
Jesus replied When you enter the city a man carrying a jar of water will meet you Follow him to the house he enters
But they could not get near him because of the crowd
There you will be told everything you have been given to do.’
I hope so
Paul Brags about His Sufferings
Others may not think of me as an apostle. But I am certainly one to you! You are the proof that I am the Lord’s apostle.
The one who looks at me sees the one who sent me.
Paul stood up and motioned with his hand. Then he said, “Fellow Israelites, and you Gentiles who worship God, listen to me!
So God lifted him up to the highest place.
So dont be afraid You are worth more than many sparrows
Dear friends,
God raised us up with Christ. He has seated us with him in his heavenly kingdom. That’s because we belong to Christ Jesus.
Give to everyone what you owe them.
Is it encouraging others Then encourage them
Your riches have rotted
They told you
Even the demons believe that.
But some people in the crowd made fun of the believers. “They’ve had too much wine!” they said.
Not all earthly creatures are the same. People have one kind of body. Animals have another. Birds have another kind. Fish have still another.
I speak the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My mind tells me that what I say is true. It is guided by the Holy Spirit.
The message of the cross seems foolish to those who are lost and dying. But it is God’s power to us who are being saved.
Worship in the Holy Tent on Earth
Those people hear the message They keep it in their hearts They remain faithful and produce a good crop
When they finished, James spoke up. “Brothers,” he said, “listen to me.
But none of them received what God had promised.
My Father who has given them to me is greater than anyone
Little flock do not be afraid Your Father has been pleased to give you the kingdom
The people also did not turn away from their murders witchcraft sexual sins and stealing
You are my Son
So he stayed two days
I saw a great white throne.
We are talking about a priest who is from a different tribe
Jesus replied, “Friend, do what you came to do.”
But anyone who does not recognize this will not be recognized.
Sell what you own. Give to those who are poor. Provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out. Store up riches in heaven that will never be used up. There, no thief can come near it. There, no moth can destroy it.
So he arrested Peter also.
The man sent still another servant. The renters killed him. The man sent many others. The renters beat up some of them. They killed the others.
My brothers and sisters I am sure that you are full of goodness You are filled with knowledge and able to teach one another
Then they spoke to Paul. “Brother,” they said, “you see that thousands of Jews have become believers.
Whoever finds their life will lose it. Whoever loses their life because of me will find it.
Why do you call me Lord Lord and still dont do what I say
Then you will tell people about me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria. And you will even tell other people about me from one end of the earth to the other.”
On the fourtith night the wind was still pushing us across the Adriatic Sea. About midnight the sailors had a feeling that they were approaching land.
I face death every day Thats the truth And here is something you can be just as sure of I take pride in what Christ Jesus our Lord has done for you through my work
They must be stopped They are making trouble for entire families
As evening approached, a rich man came from the town of Arimathea. His name was Joseph. He had become a follower of Jesus.
They heard Paul talk about the dead being raised. Some of them made fun of this idea.
But what cant be seen will last forever
Why? Because I don’t love you? No! God knows I do!
But we have the mind of Christ.
The leader must not be a new believer If he is he might become proud Then he would be judged just like the devil
Then he prayed again
He is the Messiah, the Lord.
Two other men were also led out with Jesus to be killed. Both of them had broken the law.
The God who chooses you does not keep you from obeying the truth
Most of all, he is the Savior of those who believe.
And what he has said is true
But they spread the word only among Jews
“Yes. I am coming soon.”
In fact, that time is already here. You will leave me all alone.
When they landed, they saw a fire of burning coals. There were fish on it. There was also some bread.
We honor you king of the Jews
We dont give up Our bodies are becoming weaker and weaker But our spirits are being renewed day by day
I heard a sound from heaven It was like the roar of rushing waters and loud thunder
But they refused to turn away from their sins They did not give glory to God
So I want the men in every place to pray I want them to lift up holy hands I dont want them to be angry when they pray I dont want them to argue
The devil had caused them to believe lies. He was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur. That is where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown.
they will tear the new clothes.
They were surprised and terrified. They thought they were seeing a ghost.
Go it said
And suppose a poor man in dirty old clothes also comes in.
Those who were sent ahead went and found the young donkey. It was there just as Jesus had told them.
He took away the weapons of the powers and authorities He made a public show of them He won the battle over them by dying on the cross
You will be treated badly for ten days.
When one of them saw that he was healed, he came back. He praised God in a loud voice.
That same day the Sadducees came to Jesus with a question They do not believe that people rise from the dead
The sun will not beat down on them.’
I also have something to say to everyone else.
He is the go-between of a new covenant You have come to the sprinkled blood
He sat down to teach them.
The created world was held back from fulfilling its purpose. But this was not the result of its own choice. It was planned that way by the one who held it back. God planned
She cried out in pain because she was about to have a baby.
You know how you should follow our example
If anyone does not love the Lord let a curse be on that person
When they had spoken, I was getting ready to write. But I heard a voice from heaven say, “Seal up what the seven thunders have said. Do not write it down.”
Brothers and sisters, I have used myself and Apollos as examples to help you. You can learn from us the meaning of the saying, “Don’t go beyond what is written.” Then you won’t be proud that you follow one of us instead of the other.
So here is what I tell you The kingdom of God will be taken away from you It will be given to people who will produce its fruit
We told you about the time our Lord Jesus Christ came with power. But we didn’t make up clever stories when we told you about it.
So God let them continue to have their shameful desires.
Anyone who hates their brother or sister is a murderer.
Here is how we know we belong to him
The rest said Leave him alone Lets see if Elijah comes to save him
But God has put together all the parts of the body And he has given more honor to the parts that didnt have any
He threw his coat to one side. Then he jumped to his feet and came to Jesus.
They can barely hear with their ears.
I wanted to smack you
And there is only one go-between for God and human beings.
“My friends, here is what I want you to know. I announce to you that your sins can be forgiven because of what Jesus has done.
He gave himself to pay for the sins of all people.
We didnt give in to them for a moment We did this so that the truth of the good news would be kept safe for you
If one part suffers every part suffers with it
We found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia. So we went on board and headed out to sea.
God supplies seed for the person who plants He supplies bread for food God will also supply and increase the amount of your seed
The disciples went and woke Jesus up. They said, “Master! Master! We’re going to drown!”
What I’m about to tell you is true. Everyone who believes has life forever.
That one sin brought Gods judgment
Jesus replied I will also ask you a question Tell me
But I don’t want to write with pen and ink.
Paul Mourns for Israel
The way they live must show that they have turned away from their sins.
His life was cut off from the earth.” (Isaiah :,)
So Zacchaeus came down at once and welcomed him gladly.
Jesus asked his disciples to come to him He said What Im about to tell you is true That poor widow has put more into the offering box than all the others
Dont let anyone trick you in any way That day will not come until people rise up against God It will not come until the man of sin appears He is a marked man He is headed for ruin
Peter said I dont have any silver or gold
I wasnt alone then
Some people actually lie by reporting that this is what we say.
Others may not think of me as an apostle. But I am certainly one to you!
Instead, join with me as I suffer for the good news. God’s power will help us do that.
Ananias the high priest heard this So he ordered the men standing near Paul to hit him on the mouth
And I obey his word.
“Lord, who has believed what we’ve been saying?
Fire will destroy everything in them
Then the high priest tore his clothes. He said, “He has spoken a very evil thing against God! Why do we need any more witnesses? You have heard him say this evil thing.
What the proverbs say about them is true
They called out to the mountains and rocks
Jesus said to them, “Take off the clothes he was buried in and let him go.”
Solomon was the father of RehoboamRehoboam was the father of AbijahAbijah was the father of Asa
The student is not better than the teacher
So I thought I should try to get the brothers to visit you ahead of time They will finish the plans for the large gift you had promised
But the commander didnt listen to what Paul said Instead he followed the advice of the pilot and the ships owner
But Jesus did not answer him.
And they can strike the earth with every kind of plague. They can do this as often as they want to.
We announce to you what we have seen and heard We do it so you can share life together with us
So he stood up and said to them Has any one of you not sinned Then you are the first to throw a stone at her
I have kept the faith
They want to be teachers of the law
who teach will be held more accountable.
God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son will give you grace,
But John found fault with Herod the ruler of Galilee because of his marriage to Herodias
No one can shut what he opens
Instead, they should serve them even better. That’s because their masters are loved by them as believers. These masters are committed to caring for their slaves.
We Love Because God Loved Us
They went up to him again and again. They kept saying, “We honor you, king of the Jews!” And they slapped him in the face.
They were created and they exist
Right away the rooster crowed the second time. Then Peter remembered what Jesus had spoken to him. “The rooster will crow twice,” he had said. “Before it does, you will say three times that you don’t know me.” Peter broke down and cried.
So no one will be considered right with God by obeying the law.
They wrote to the believers there. They asked them to welcome him.
They cant go back inside their mother They cant be born a second time
Now then who are you to judge your brother or sister Why do you act like youre better than they are We will all stand in Gods courtroom to be judged
She had a sister named Mary
But others asked, “How can a sinner do such signs?” So the Pharisees did not agree with one another.
At once the girl hurried to ask the king. She said, “I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a big plate right now.”
So you are no longer outsiders and strangers You are citizens together with Gods people You are also members of Gods family
You have been raised up with Christ. So think about things that are in heaven. That is where Christ is. He is sitting at God’s right hand.
He appeared as a man.
Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia. Then Paul spent all his time preaching. He was a witness to the Jews that Jesus was the Messiah.
Pray for us.
“If you make a tree good, its fruit will be good. If you make a tree bad, its fruit will be bad. You can tell a tree by its fruit.
I wont see her again
Love is the purpose of my command Love comes from a pure heart It comes from a good sense of what is right and wrong It comes from faith that is honest and true
Give us today our daily bread
We have only five loaves of bread and two fish they answered
He himself went into the synagogue and talked with the Jews.
Some say His letters sound important They are powerful
Come
Not even angels or demons,
Send it to the seven churches in Asia Minor. They are Ephesus,
Before the law was given sin was in the world This is certainly true But people are not judged for sin when there is no law
They love to have the most important seats in the synagogues.
“We have found that Paul is a troublemaker. This man stirs up trouble among Jews all over the world.
It is time to reward your servants the prophets
I'm playing a TV game.
Let the peace that Christ gives rule in your hearts As parts of one body you were appointed to live in peace And be thankful
The same thing happened to the second and third brothers. It happened right on down to the seventh brother.
You already have everything you want, don’t you?
Don’t do it because you are proud.
What should we say then Since God is on our side who can be against us
No one in the field should go back to get their coat
And a saltwater spring can’t produce fresh water either.
He didn’t let anything stop him. That’s because he saw the God who can’t be seen.
Give her as much pain and suffering
Mr Chomau Mengstu is a government employee and his monthly salary is oe thoused eight hudred.
What I say about myself is more important than what John says about me
So Jesus replied to the messengers, “Go back to John. Tell him what you have seen and heard. Blind people receive sight. Disabled people walk. Those who have skin diseases are made ‘clean.’ Deaf people hear. Those who are dead are raised to life. And the good news is announced to those who are poor.
Some people standing there asked, “What are you doing? Why are you untying that colt?”
Then this person is a liar
Give him the power for ever and ever. Amen.
The first terrible judgment is past Two others are still coming
Jesus had not yet entered the village. He was still at the place where Martha had met him.
He is the one who made the heavens and the earth and the sea. He made everything in them.
But if you break the law, it is just as if you hadn’t been circumcised.
He talked and argued with the Greek Jews.
We who have strong faith should help the weak with their problems We should not please only ourselves
My brothers and sisters,
So be careful. When you think you are standing firm, you might fall.
Those who had seen it told them what had happened to the man They told about the pigs as well
His memory amazes me。
What if some Jews were not faithful? Will the fact that they weren’t faithful keep God from being faithful?
He was raised to life in order to make us right with God
Our duty is not to live under the power of sin.
But what can’t be seen will last forever.
He sent for Barnabas and Saul He wanted to hear Gods word
Try hard to be holy.
But we have been truly circumcised We serve God by the power of his Spirit We boast about what Christ Jesus has done We dont put our trust in who we are or what we can do
He must be worthy of respect
Peter said, “I don’t have any silver or gold. But I’ll give you what I do have. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, get up and walk.”
You will fill me with joy when I am with you.’
Let we give thanks to God for his gift It is so great that no one can tell how wonderful it really is
Tell her to help me!”
But do not measure the outer courtyard.
The believers there had heard we were coming. They traveled as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns to meet us. When Paul saw these people, he thanked God for them and was encouraged by them.
I have a lot to write to you.
Then they agreed to take him into the boat.
Instead, you yourselves cheat and do wrong.
Here is what God says about the Son. God has given us eternal life. And this life is found in his Son.
Then Jesus answered Will you really give your life for me
Suppose you dont commit adultery but do commit murder Then you have broken the law
Suppose our good news is covered with a veil.
Judas Hangs Himself
God did all this to prove in our own time that he does what is right. He also makes right with himself those who believe in Jesus.
Then Gods people will shine like the sun in their Fathers kingdom Whoever has ears should listen
Simon’s mother-in-law was lying in bed with a fever. They told Jesus about her right away.
It is written
When evening came, many people controlled by demons were brought to Jesus. He drove out the spirits with a word. He healed all who were sick.
Work because you know that you will finally receive as a reward what the Lord wants you to have
“How can I be sure of this?
That good man lived among them day after day He saw and heard the evil things they were doing They were breaking Gods laws And the godly spirit of Lot was deeply troubled
This agrees with what the Lord has said When the Lord comes many of us will still be alive
The God who will destroy them has not been sleeping
Then the disciples came to him. They asked, “Do you know that the Pharisees were angry when they heard this?”
You will be hated by everyone because of me But anyone who remains strong in the faith will be saved
One day he called them together. He also called others who were in the same kind of business.
The law appoints as high priests men who are weak. But God’s promise came after the law. By his promise the Son was appointed. The Son has been made perfect forever.
The fire is not put out.’
I told you that you would die in your sins.
We sailed straight to Kos The next day we went to Rhodes
Jews require signs Greeks look for wisdom
It is true that there are all kinds of languages in the world.
In those days people will look for a way to die but wont find it
In my opinion she is happier if she stays single
AndThe one who is right with God will live by faith
You used to be slaves of sin. But thank God that with your whole heart you obeyed the teachings you were given!
First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you People all over the world are talking about your faith
While they were going out, another man was brought to Jesus. A demon controlled him, and he could not speak.
Then he carried me away in a vision. The Spirit took me to a huge, high mountain. He showed me Jerusalem, the Holy City. It was coming down out of heaven from God.
Ill let Abrham  tell you
But what if we say From human authority We are afraid of the people Everyone believes that John was a prophet
Before anything was created, he was already there.
How Ive missed you
Every day I was with you I taught in the temple courtyard and you didnt arrest me But the Scriptures must come true
He is the Savior of all people.
He will help you who are troubled. And he will also help us.
But the donkey spoke with a human voice. It tried to stop the prophet from doing a very dumb thing.
Dont you know that your bodies belong to the body of Christ
Make sure that no one pays back one wrong act with another
Prophecy never came simply because a prophet wanted it to Instead the Holy Spirit guided the prophets as they spoke So although prophets are human prophecy comes from God
But you do have this in your favor
So we are being changed to become more like him so that we have more and more glory. And this glory comes from the Lord, who is the Holy Spirit.
At all times pray by the power of the Spirit Pray all kinds of prayers
The one who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks like someone from the earth
Suddenly a large group of angels from heaven also appeared They were praising God They said
Then those in the boat worshiped Jesus They said You really are the Son of God
Jesus said, “If you were blind, you would not be guilty of sin.
The Jews who heard these words could not agree with one another
So how can we keep on sinning?
Then the woman fell to her knees in front of him Lord Help me she said
So the rich man called out, ‘Father Abraham! Have pity on me! Send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water. Then he can cool my tongue with it. I am in terrible pain in this fire.’
I received this command from my Father.”
It does not want what belongs to others.
Doesn’t he say that for us?
He said The Son of Man must be handed over to sinful people He must be nailed to a cross On the third day he will rise from the dead
And again it says,
The Son of Man, will say in front of God’s angels that I don’t know him.
I hope you will put up with me in a little foolish bragging. Yes, please put up with me!
The Feast of Unleavened Bread called the Passover was near
“why do you plan to show yourself only to us? Why not also to the world?” The Judas who spoke those words was not Judas Iscariot.
He belongs to the other seven
But the man replied Lord first let me go and bury my father
“There was not enough food for all Egypt and Canaan. This brought great suffering. Jacob and his sons couldn’t find food.
They brought us to Mnasons home
Instead they feed
They will throw the evil people into the blazing furnace. There the evil ones will weep and grind their teeth.
Remain joined to Christ, just as you have been taught by the Spirit.
There she entered Zechariahs home and greeted Elizabeth
We are certain about that. We would rather be away from our bodies and at home with the Lord.
Christ suffered in his body. So prepare yourselves to think in the same way Christ did.
just as you do.
He makes both us and you remain strong in the faith because we belong to Christ
He wanted those who would receive what was promised to know this.
“If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him.
yours go on eating and drinking
You died Now your life is hidden with Christ in God
No! Let them come themselves and personally lead us out.”
Then Jesus went to Capernaum a town in Galilee
Bring the fattest calf and kill it. Let’s have a feast and celebrate.
I hope that you will always be able to remember these things after I’m gone.
At the same time, the  elders fall down and worship the one who sits on the throne. He lives for ever and ever. They lay their crowns in front of the throne. They say,
We know that Scripture is always true
Suppose someone thinks they know more than we do So they dont follow Christs teaching Then that person doesnt belong to God But whoever follows Christs teaching belongs to the Father and the Son
Give to the one who asks you for something. Don’t turn away from the one who wants to borrow something from you.Love Your Enemies
Who are you to judge someone else’s servant? Whether they are faithful or not is their own master’s concern. And they will be faithful, because the Lord has the power to make them faithful.
Sin ruled and brought death But grace rules in the lives of those who are right with God The grace of God brings eternal life Thats because of what Jesus Christ our Lord has done
All those things bring praise to his glorious grace. God freely gave us his grace because of the One he loves.
Anyone who welcomes you welcomes me And anyone who welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me
Paul traveled through Syria and Cilicia He gave strength to the churches there
Here is what you can be sure of.
They saw him walking on the lake and were terrified. “It’s a ghost!” they said. And they cried out in fear.
While I was with you I kept on showing you the actions of a true apostle These actions include signs wonders and miracles
The woman said I know that Messiah is coming Messiah means Christ
So no more bragging about human leaders
After John was put in prison Jesus went into Galilee He preached the good news of God
Jesus Is Lord of the Sabbath Day
He gave them the ability to do signs and wonders
Someone in the crowd spoke to Jesus
From Attalia they sailed back to Antioch. In Antioch they had been put in God’s care to preach the good news. They had now completed the work God had given them to do.
The good news has to be preached to all nations before the end comes.
Now then when the dead rise whose wife will she be All seven of them were married to her
I was a witness of Christs sufferings
Simon Peter motioned to that disciple
So Pilate asked him again, “Aren’t you going to answer? See how many things they charge you with.”
He had to carry his own cross. He went out to a place called the Skull. In the Aramaic language it was called Golgotha.
But you do not believe.
They loved praise from people more than praise from God.
They might hear with their ears.
Paul’s Reasons for Giving Instructions to Timothy
Jesus spoke to the Jews who had believed him If you obey my teaching he said you are really my disciples
But you are stubborn.
I used to speak evil things against Jesus. I tried to hurt his followers. I really pushed them around.
Some time later, Jesus went up to Jerusalem for one of the Jewish feasts.
He is the first to be raised from the dead That happened so that he would be far above everything
Dont you know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit The Spirit is in you and you have received the Spirit from God You do not belong to yourselves
“I am not talking about all of you. I know the ones I have chosen. But this will happen so that this passage of Scripture will come true. It says, ‘The one who shared my bread has turned against me.’
Does he owe you anything Then charge it to me
and do good
He gave all these people so that they might prepare God’s people to serve. Then the body of Christ will be built up.
Blessed is anyone who stays awake and keeps their clothes on.
Many people who live on the earth will worship the beast. They are the ones whose names are not written in the Lamb’s book of life.
Everyone who is supposed to be killed by a sword
But others said, “We want to hear you speak about this again.”
Isnt this the carpenters son
Eliezer was the son of Jorim.
Dont try to grow strong by eating foods that the law requires They have no value for the people who eat them
But don’t think of them as an enemy. Instead, warn them as you would warn another believer.
Even dogs came and licked his sores All he wanted was to eat what fell from the rich mans table
I know my tent will soon be removed Our Lord Jesus Christ has made that clear to me
Will this challenge millionaire Liangs Universality be the last measure they have come in
God had said to him,
Why am I still here?
I found out that the charge against him was based on questions about their law But there was no charge against him worthy of death or prison
That is what the Lord says
Don’t let the chains of slavery hold you again.
Workers are worthy of their pay.
I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes.
So suppose you disagree with one another in matters like this. Who do you ask to decide which of you is right? Do you ask people who live in a way the church disapproves of? Of course not!
We are witnesses whom God had already chosen
Dont put anything in their way that would make them trip and fall
The well is deep.
Praise and cursing come out of the same mouth.
Be sad with those who are sad
I will raise them up on the last day
He was an evil magician and a false prophet.
People have tamed all kinds of wild animals,
Suppose someone gives even a cup of cold water to a little one who follows me What Im about to tell you is true That person will certainly be rewarded
I have been in danger from rivers I have been in danger from robbers
The jailer called out for some lights. He rushed in, shaking with fear. He fell down in front of Paul and Silas.
They were going to name him Zechariah, like his father.
If I am guilty of anything worthy of death, I’m willing to die.
Amos was the son of Nahum.
Disabled people walk
Just outside the city was the temple of the god Zeus.
Stay away from godless chatter
Be watchful and control yourselves. Your enemy the devil is like a roaring lion. He prowls around looking for someone to swallow up.
I saw seven golden lampstands.
Some people do not know Gods law when they sin They will not be judged by the law when they die Others do know Gods law when they sin They will be judged by the law
Then the chief priests met with the elders of the people They met in the palace of Caiaphas the high priest
Welcome others into your homes
One of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him. So he went to the Pharisee’s house. He took his place at the table.
At that time someone may say to you Look Here is the Messiah Or There he is Do not believe it
I am telling you what I saw when I was with my Father.
Those who were standing near Paul spoke to him They said How dare you talk like that to Gods high priest
As a mother feeds and cares for her little children, we cared for you.
My brother, we both belong to the Lord. So I wish I could receive some benefit from you. Renew my heart. We know that Christ is the one who really renews it.
We are not throwing stones at you for any good work they replied We are stoning you for saying a very evil thing
The law that condemns people to death had glory. How much more glory does the work of the Spirit have! His work makes people right with God.
“Then the king said to his slaves, ‘The wedding dinner is ready. But those I invited were not fit to come.
Everything written in the past was written to teach us The Scriptures give us strength to go on They encourage us and give us hope
Have I said something wrong Jesus replied If I have then tell everyone what it was
So they do not need to honor their father or mother with their gift. You make the word of God useless in order to follow your own teachings.
A soldier does not take part in things that dont have anything to do with the army Instead he tries to please his commanding officer
Don’t be afraid.”
I bring my rewards with me
That means to bring Christ up from the dead
But they shouted even louder Crucify him
Then Jesus asked, “What is God’s kingdom like? What can I compare it to?
I will get up and go back to my father I will say to him Father I have sinned against heaven And I have sinned against you
I will use a nation that has no understanding to make you angry.”
The authorities serve God. Ruling takes up all their time.
Another was Joanna, the wife of Chuza. He was the manager of Herod’s household. Susanna and many others were there also.
I didn’t mean the people of this world who sin in this way. I didn’t mean those who always want more and more. I didn’t mean those who cheat or who worship statues of gods.
So dont be afraid in any way of those who oppose you
Keep watch I have told you everything ahead of time
You have been raised up with Christ So think about things that are in heaven
The disciples began to argue about which one of them would be the most important person.
So live as outsiders during your time here.
Can we say that God is not fair when he brings his anger down on us
I will not leave you like children who don’t have parents.
Abraham and his family received a promise. God promised that Abraham would receive the world. It would not come to him because he obeyed the law.
Some of the visitors are Jews. Others have accepted the Jewish faith.
Is it possible that no one among you is wise enough to judge matters between believers
If you believe this you will have life because you belong to him
But they couldn’t find any way to do it. All the people were paying close attention to his words.
Peter looked straight at him, and so did John. Then Peter said, “Look at us!”
It will bear a lot of fruit. But what should I choose? I don’t know!
He also says,
Because of Christ we speak honestly before God. We speak like people God has sent.
So dont be proud but tremble
And I will show you my faith by the goods deeds I do
“Yes, I am,” Paul answered.
Jesus told this story
“I am not crazy, most excellent Festus,” Paul replied. “What I am saying is true and reasonable.
Rise from the dead.
When Ananias heard this he fell down and died
After that, he must be set free for a short time.
They asked Jesus Are you the one who is supposed to come Or should we look for someone else
I didnt go up to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before I was Instead I went into Arabia Later I returned to Damascus
The second man came from heaven.
But we preach about Christ and his death on the cross That is very hard for Jews to accept And everyone else thinks its foolish
Everyone who is on the side of truth listens to me
They are the people who separate you from one another
He sent his angel to show his servants the things that must soon take place
They came to the border of Mysia. From there they tried to enter Bithynia.
But they were not aware of it.
Be like the Son of Man. He did not come to be served. Instead, he came to serve others. He came to give his life as the price for setting many people free.”
But the news about Jesus spread even more. So crowds of people came to hear him. They also came to be healed of their sicknesses.
I know a believer in Christ who was taken up to the third heaven fourteen years ago.
Every sea captain
May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with you
Joseph was the son of Jonam
He took her by the hand. Then he said to her, “Talitha koum!” This means, “Little girl, I say to you, get up!”
Not everyone is a believer.
One day Jesus was standing by the Sea of Galilee The people crowded around him and listened to the word of God
You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know. Salvation comes from the Jews.
No one pours new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wine will burst the skins. Then the wine and the wineskins will both be destroyed. No, people pour new wine into new wineskins.”
left us children and grandchildren.
My whole body will be full of hope.
Enoch was the son of Jared.
Paul wanted to take him along on the journey
But for us there is only one God. He is the Father. All things came from him, and we live for him. And there is only one Lord. He is Jesus Christ. All things came because of him, and we live because of him.
The glory lasted for only a short time. Even so, the people of Israel couldn’t look at Moses’ face very long.
What Im about to tell you is true
Then those who oppose you will be ashamed.
“Look! The Lord is coming with thousands and thousands of his holy ones.
Many false prophets have gone out into the world
You belong to your father, the devil.
I did works among them that no one else did.
But a married woman is concerned about the matters of this world. She wants to know how she can please her husband.
Why aren’t my words clear to you?
Now you should forgive him and comfort him Then he wont be sad more than he can stand
He has welcomed me and the whole church here into his house
There is one body and one Spirit You were appointed to one hope when you were chosen
Then Jesus asked the disciples Did you need anything when I sent you without a purse bag or sandals
Blind Bartimaeus Receives His Sight
Branches like those are picked up They are thrown into the fire
We have that same spirit of faith
Christ did not send me to baptize. He sent me to preach the good news. He commanded me not to preach with wisdom and fancy words. That would take all the power away from the cross of Christ.
Call me.
Jesus replied, “Anyone who loves me will obey my teaching. My Father will love them. We will come to them and make our home with them.
That rock was Christ.
He too was killed.
In fact he has prepared a city for them
They were not pleased with him at all
Suddenly a large group of angels from heaven also appeared. They were praising God. They said,
Their pay is crying out against you.
My Father is the gardener.
Jesus Is Tempted in the Desert
Right away he and everyone who lived with him were baptized
We dont need to write to you about your love for one another God himself has taught you to love one another
When the one thoused years are over Satan will be set free from his prison
Thats because the devil has been sinning from the beginning
They ran out of the house naked and bleeding
We know what it means to have respect for the Lord So we try to help other people to understand it
From Paphos, Paul and his companions sailed to Perga in Pamphylia. There John Mark left them and returned to Jerusalem.
Jesus went around doing good
‘God, I thank you that I am not like other people,’ he said.
Then I preached in Jerusalem and in all Judea. And then I preached to the Gentiles. I told them to turn away from their sins to God.
Hop in
The Spirit you received doesn’t make you slaves. Otherwise you would live in fear again. Instead, the Holy Spirit you received made you God’s adopted child.
Or what about the eighten people in Siloam They died when the tower fell on them Do you think they were more guilty than all the others living in Jerusalem
So who can brag? No one! Are people saved by the law that requires them to obey? Not at all! They are saved because of the law that requires faith.
Then Pilate went out again to the Jews gathered there. He said, “I find no basis for any charge against him.
And that is not all We are full of joy in God because of our Lord Jesus Christ Because of him God has brought us back to himself
God has shown his grace by sparing the lives of all those sailing with you
So how can we know the way
Then the Jews there began to complain about Jesus. That was because he said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.”
Leave the Pharisees They are blind guides If one blind person leads another blind person both of them will fall into a pit
Those who are Gods children will not keep on sinning Gods very nature remains in them They cant go on sinning Thats because they are Gods children
He says People from Crete are always liars They are evil beasts They dont want to work They live only to eat
While Jesus was still speaking a crowd came up The man named Judas was leading them He was one of the  disciples Judas approached Jesus to kiss him
Don’t be controlled by love for money. Be happy with what you have. God has said,
When they arrived in Jerusalem, the church welcomed them. The apostles and elders welcomed them too.
But Jesus said You are from below
But the person who prophesies builds up the church
I am warning everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book Suppose someone adds anything to them Then God will add to that person the plagues told about in this book
At that moment she fell down at Peters feet and died
But she didn’t realize that it was Jesus.
The one who comes from heaven is above everything.
So Judas went to Jesus at once. He said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” And he kissed him.
John was also baptizing. He was at Aenon near Salim, where there was plenty of water. People were coming and being baptized.
Let them trip and fall Let them get whats coming to them
But whoever loves God is known by God.
You shouldnt be called teacher You have one Teacher and he is the Messiah
Then the voice I had heard from heaven spoke to me again. It said, “The angel is standing on the sea and on the land. Go and take the scroll from him. It is lying open in his hand.”
Paul greeted them. Then he reported everything God had done among the Gentiles through his work.
I will try very hard to see that you do
He was amazed because they had no faith.
because the Lord has the power to make them faithful.
On each side of the river stood the tree of life bearing  crops of fruitIts fruit was ripe every month
The cities of the nations crumbled and fell.
Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven He was wearing a cloud like a robe There was a rainbow above his head His face was like the sun His legs were like pillars of fire
All the brothers and sisters who are with me join me in writing
“Lord,” he said, “my servant lies at home and can’t move. He is suffering terribly.”
Suppose no one raises from the dead Then what will people do who are baptized for the dead
The wisdom of this world is foolish in God’s eyes.
Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light.
But what about you he asked Who do you say I am
You rich people listen to me
What we know now is not complete
They realized that these men had been with Jesus.
Didnt you know I had to be in my Fathers house
Standing beside the sea were those who had won the battle over the beast.
John came to show you the right way to live. And you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and the prostitutes did. You saw this. But even then you did not turn away from your sins and believe him.
So they passed by Mysia Then they went down to Troas
One of the Jewish leaders spoke up. His name was Caiaphas. He was high priest at that time.
Everything that is hidden will be uncovered
After drinking old wine, no one wants the new. They say, ‘The old wine is better.’ ”
You know what God wants
God didn’t turn his back on his people.
Christ himself is our peace He has made Jews and Gentiles into one group of people He has destroyed the hatred that was like a wall between us
I also ordered those bringing charges against him to present their case to you.
Jesus ordered the demon to leave the boy and it came out of him He was healed at that moment
They should commit themselves to their faithful Creator.
Then Jesus told a story. “A man had a fig tree,” he said. “It was growing in his vineyard. When he went to look for fruit on it, he didn’t find any.
Some of the angels didnt stay where they belonged They didnt keep their positions of authority The Lord has kept those angels in darkness They are held by chains that last forever On judgment day God will judge them
“You have sent people to John the Baptist.
God gives freely to everyone and doesnt find fault
A thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy.
‘I know that you suffer and are poor.
He said, “The Holy Spirit says, ‘This is how the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem will tie up the owner of this belt. They will hand him over to the Gentiles.’ ”
Peter said, “All the others may turn away. But I will not.”
The sixth angel blew his trumpet.
Festus said, “King Agrippa, and everyone else here, take a good look at this man! A large number of Jews have come to me about him. They came to me in Jerusalem and also here in Caesarea. They keep shouting that he shouldn’t live any longer.
These are the things you are to teach Try hard to get the believers to do them
Scripture says
They will be judged by all
In him we live and move and exist As some of your own poets have also said We are his children
But Saul began to destroy the church.
I taught God’s word
They will be given the earth
While it is still day, we must do the works of the one who sent me.
It would come because of his faith which made him right with God
Greet Mary She worked very hard for you
For your benefit, I am glad I was not there. Now you will believe.
The Lord God will make him a king like his father David of long ago
Do you share anything in common because of the Holy Spirit?
I dont say this to judge you
I made myself known to those who were not asking for Me.”
Then Jesus walked a little farther. As he did, he saw James, the son of Zebedee, and his brother John. They were in a boat preparing their nets.
They nailed him to the cross. Then they divided up his clothes. They cast lots to see what each of them would get.
Pauls Concern for the People of Corinth
We are made right with God by putting our faith in Jesus Christ This happens to all who believe It is no different for the Jews than for the Gentiles
When the name of Jesus is spoken everyone will kneel down to worship him
They also will listen to my voice.
what does a believer have in common with an unbeliever?
They will take over the holy city for fourty two months.
They will receive many times as much in this world. In the world to come they will receive eternal life.”
You have not accepted the teachings of the false prophets
But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives
“They don’t have any respect for God.”
I am sending him to you for one reason I want you to know what is happening here I want him to encourage you and make your hearts strong
He told us how he had seen an angel appear in his house.
And the earth was harvested
Paul knew that some of them were Sadducees and the others were Pharisees. So he called out to the members of the Sanhedrin. “My brothers,” he said, “I am a Pharisee. I come from a family of Pharisees. I believe that people will rise from the dead. That’s why I am on trial.”
Those who belong to Christ Jesus are no longer under Gods judgment
The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep
He holds everything together
Im sure I will be with you again Then you will be able to boast in Christ Jesus even more because of me
It comes from the Holy Spirit
Jesus knew that the Father had put everything under his power
and he will come near to you.
You agree with what is best because the law teaches you.
But you have forgotten to be fair and to love God.
Im talking about the other persons sense of what is right and wrong not yours
It’s the same with you. Suppose you have done everything you were told to do. Then you should say, ‘We are not worthy to serve you. We have only done our duty.’ ”
Here is what happened
It had eyes even under its wings
Here’s how we know that we hold to the truth.
Do I mean that food sacrificed to a statue of a god is anything? Do I mean that a statue of a god is anything?
What if some people fall away from the faith It wont be possible to bring them back It is true that they have seen the light They have tasted the heavenly gift They have shared in the Holy Spirit
Suppose someone is on the housetop on that day And suppose what they own is inside the house They should not go down to get what they own No one in the field should go back for anything either
Be kind and tender to one another
There were also wild animals, reptiles and birds.
He was very sick In fact he almost died But God had mercy on him He also had mercy on me God spared me sadness after sadness
It teaches that the person who does these things will live by them
From the Father every family in heaven and on earth gets its name.
They said he was a god
Be shepherds of God’s flock, the believers under your care. watch over them, though not because you have to.
I planned to visit you on my way to Macedonia I would have come back to you from there Then you would have sent me on my way to Judea
Leading People to Sin
Gods grace has saved you
He said Cornelius God has heard your prayer
After he said this, he sent the people away.
In the same way, I want the women to be careful how they dress.
If we are having trouble, it is so that you will be comforted and renewed. If we are comforted, it is so that you will be comforted. Then you will be able to put up with the same suffering we have gone through.
The Queen of the South will stand up on judgment day with the people now living And she will prove that they are guilty
The one who comes from above is above everything
You have been born again by means of the living word of God His word lasts forever You were not born again from a seed that will die You were born from a seed that cant die
The voice said Write on a scroll what you see
-He replied Because your faith is much too small What Im about to tell you is true If you have faith as small as a mustard seed it is enough
We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you.
A third of the living creatures in the sea died.
Not at all Yet I wouldnt have known what sin was unless the law had told me
You can tell each tree by the kind of fruit it bears
God said, “Do not commit adultery.” He also said, “Do not commit murder.”  Suppose you don’t commit adultery but do commit murder. Then you have broken the law.
If he comes to you welcome him
A holy tent was set up The lampstand was in the first room So was the table with its holy bread That was called the Holy Room
Judas who was going to hand Jesus over had arranged a signal with them The one I kiss is the man he said Arrest him
great city
I watched as the Lamb broke open the first of the seven seals. Then I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice that sounded like thunder, “Come!”
We give thanks for the cup at the Lord’s Supper. When we do, aren’t we sharing in the blood of Christ?
Bless them, and do not curse them.
I am content whether I have more than enough or not enough.
About nine oclock in the morning he went out again He saw others standing in the market doing nothing
His grace teaches us to say no to godless ways and sinful desires. We must control ourselves. We must do what is right. We must lead godly lives in today’s world.
The Story of the Two Sons
Keep us from falling into sin when we are tempted.’ ”
Which do you want
I do not accept praise from human beings
The crowd realized that Jesus and his disciples were not there. So they got into boats and went to Capernaum to look for Jesus.
Its in your mouth and in your heart
But I want you to know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he spoke to the man who could not walk. “I tell you,” he said, “get up.Take your mat and go home.”
Do you have eyes and still don’t see? Do you have ears and still don’t hear? And don’t you remember?
A third of all people were killed by the three plagues of fire smoke and sulfur that came out of the horses mouths
But what does Scripture say Get rid of the slave woman Get rid of her son The slave womans son will never have a share of the familys property Hell never share it with the free womans son
Not very far away a large herd of pigs was feeding
He used to live here.
You be the judge. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God without covering her head?
The wife’s body does not belong only to her. It also belongs to her husband. In the same way, the husband’s body does not belong only to him. It also belongs to his wife.
Today I have become your Father
He said there would not be nearly enough food anywhere in the Roman world
The time has come he said The kingdom of God has come near Turn away from your sins and believe the good newsJesus Chooses His First Disciples
They made plans to arrest Jesus secretly. They wanted to kill him.
It gleamed like a very valuable jewel.
He went to him, poured olive oil and wine on his wounds and bandaged them.
“Think about how the wild flowers grow. They don’t work or make clothing. But here is what I tell you. Not even Solomon in his royal robes was dressed like one of those flowers.
You should keep the marriage bed pure.
Tell them not to put their hope in riches Wealth is so uncertain Command those who are rich to put their hope in God He richly provides us with everything to enjoy
At that time many people became very upset about the Way of Jesus
The body that is raised from the dead lasts forever.
So dont go along with people like that
We are sending this letter to you, the members of God’s church in Corinth. You have been made holy because you belong to Christ Jesus. God has chosen you to be his holy people. He has done the same for all people everywhere who pray to our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is their Lord and ours.
Anyone who serves me must follow me
Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies They had gathered together to make war against the rider on the horse and his army
One day Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee There he saw Simon and his brother Andrew They were throwing a net into the lake They were fishermen
So he called out, “Stand up on your feet!”
They want to be teachers of the law And they are very sure about that law But they dont know what they are talking about
When he died he died once and for all time He did this to break the power of sin
We are sending this letter to you our brothers and sisters in Colossae You belong to Christ You are holy and faithful
Even if my letter made you sad, I’m not sorry I sent it. At first I was sorry. I see that my letter hurt you, but only for a little while.
Jesus Goes to the Feast of Booths
And thats not all
Then they sang a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives.
“Go away from me, Lord!
“A messenger is calling out in the desert,
Again the Pharisees called the man who had been blind to come to them.
Now the Lord is the Holy Spirit
I made myself known to those who were not asking for Me
The weeds are pulled up and burned in the fire That is how it will be on judgment day
There is great value in every way! First of all, the Jews have been given the very words of God.
The Lord makes me certain that you will see the truth of this The one who has gotten you all mixed up will have to pay the price
About five o’clock he went out and found still others standing around. He asked them, ‘Why have you been standing here all day long doing nothing?’
If Christ lives in you, you will live. Though your body will die because of sin, the Spirit gives you life. The Spirit does this because you have been made right with God.
Not very far away, a large herd of pigs was feeding.
You will offer spiritual sacrifices.
You are not looking for me because you saw the signs I did You are looking for me because you ate the loaves until you were full
“Praise and honor belong
The angel measured the wall as human beings measure things. It was two hundred feet thick.
The king became very angry He sent his army to destroy them They killed those murderers and burned their city
He had to carry his own cross He went out to a place called the Skull
Stand up to him. Remain strong in what you believe. You know that you are not alone in your suffering. The family of believers throughout the world is going through the same thing.
When they entered the tomb they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus
When they heard this, they didn’t object anymore. They praised God. They said, “So then, God has allowed even Gentiles to turn away from their sins. He did this so that they could live.”
Then what have I gotten for it
God has shown that what we have spoken to you about Christ is true.
“God is tempting me.”God can’t be tempted by evil. And he doesn’t tempt anyone.
He knows how to swim
Instead you should thank God for it
We who have strong faith should help the weak with their problems We should not please only ourselves
She poured the perfume on my body to prepare me to be buried
The prophets searched very hard and with great care to find out about this salvation.
Peter followed him out of the prison. But he had no idea that what the angel was doing was really happening. He thought he was seeing a vision.
The disciples began to argue about which one of them would be the most important person
I myself find no basis for a charge against him
Whoever does not believe God is calling him a liar Thats because they have not believed what God said about his Son
He told the crowd to sit down on the ground. He took the seven loaves and gave thanks to God. Then he broke them and gave them to his disciples. They passed the pieces of bread around to the people.
I saw another angel. He was flying high in the air. He came to tell everyone on earth the good news that will always be true. He told it to every nation, tribe and people, no matter what language they spoke.
Barnabas and Paul strongly disagreed with each other
Let us not become proud. Let us not make each other angry. Let us not want what belongs to others.
They found me doing this in the temple courtyard. I had already been made pure and ‘clean’ in the usual way. There was no crowd with me. I didn’t stir up any trouble.
But suppose the servant does not know his masters wishes And suppose the servant does things for which he should be punished
Here is what is written in the book of Isaiah the prophet It says
The mountains could not be found
Then Jesus gave them an example.
A jar of wine vinegar was there. So they soaked a sponge in it.
They must take good care of their homes
So the angel swung his blade over the earth He gathered its grapes Then he threw them into a huge winepress The winepress stands for Gods anger
Those carrying it stood still.
In the Hebrew language his name is Abaddon.
In his hand was a sharp,
Mark, my son in the faith, also sends you his greetings.
You were becoming more and more evil. Now give yourselves to be slaves to right living.
The next day we sailed from there We arrived near Chios
Hymenaeus and Philetus are two of those teachers
He says
Jesus told him, “You people will never believe unless you see signs and wonders.”
God has saved us from deadly dangers And he will continue to do it We have put our hope in him He will continue to save us
And leave the olive oil and the wine alone
Warning Against the Teachers of the Law
May the Lord who gives peace gives you peace at all times and in every way. May the Lord be with all of you?
I tell you that they gave as much as they could In fact they gave even more than they could Completely on their own
“Show me a silver coin. Whose picture and words are on it?”
The Story of the Renters
We are all witnesses of this
I have a sore throat.
What a terrible failure I am
Then smoke rose up from it like the smoke from a huge furnace.
A woman from Samaria came to get some water
You have come to God, who is the Judge of all people.
The next day was the day after Preparation Day. The chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate.
I won!
None of the disciples dared to ask him Who are you
and wearining fine clothes.
Shelah was the son of Cainan
Then he came back Again he found them sleeping They couldnt keep their eyes open
The emperor sends them to punish those who do wrong He also sends them to praise those who do right
Once again Jesus went out beside the Sea of Galilee. A large crowd came to him. He began to teach them.
Rules like these are about things that will pass away soon. They are based on merely human rules and teachings.
You know that all the believers in Asia Minor have deserted me.
I have suffered terrible beatings
Brothers and sisters I dont consider that I have taken hold of it yet But here is the one thing I do I forget what is behind me I push hard toward what is ahead of me
Then Paul went upstairs again. He broke bread and ate with them. He kept on talking until daylight. Then he left.
Just outside the city was the temple of the god Zeus. The priest of Zeus brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates. He and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to Paul and Barnabas.
He sent them out two by two ahead of him They went to every town and place where he was about to go
“But he will answer, ‘I don’t know you. And I don’t know where you come from.’
Then we can talk face to face
Herod wanted to kill John. But he was afraid of the people, because they thought John was a prophet.
He showed that it’s true by different kinds of miracles.
It is the beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit.
Jesus stepped into a boat. He went over to the other side of the lake and came to his own town.
I know what you are doing
Then the two of them told what had happened to them on the way They told how they had recognized Jesus when he broke the bread
I will also make it with the people of Judah
Now your life is hidden with Christ in God.
The World Hates the Disciples
As it is, there are many parts. But there is only one body.
But Pilate answered, “You take him and crucify him.
When God made his promise to Abraham God gave his word There was no one greater than himself to promise by So he promised by making an appeal to himself
He said to his disciples Why are you so afraid Dont you have any faith at all yet
It is done I am the Alpha and the Omega
I am afraid of dying.
turn away from your sins
Jesus Dies
All the churches of Christ send their greetings
All the other sins a person commits are outside the body.
“Look! I am coming like a thief! Blessed is anyone who stays awake and keeps their clothes on. Then they will be ready. They will not be caught naked and so be put to shame.”
Seven lamps were blazing in front of the throne.
So the  apostles gathered all the believers together. They said, “It wouldn’t be right for us to give up teaching God’s word. And we’d have to stop teaching to wait on tables.
Now Herod the ruler of Galilee heard about everything that was going on
When we came to Macedonia we werent able to rest We were attacked no matter where we went We had battles on the outside and fears on the inside
He is the one who died and came to life again. He says,
You are children of the day
A persons mouth says everything that is in their heart
He saw a fig tree by the road. He went up to it but found nothing on it except leaves. Then he said to it, “May you never bear fruit again!” Right away the tree dried up.
Prophecy of Scripture Comes From God
You foolish person! Do you want proof that faith without good deeds is useless?
There will be blood and fire and clouds of smoke.
I am sending it to the lady chosen by God and to her children I love all of you because of the truth Im not the only one who loves you So does everyone who knows the truth
We are not trying to make an appeal to you again. But we are giving you a chance to take pride in us. Some people take pride in their looks rather than what’s in their hearts. If you take pride in us, you will be able to answer them.
He saw that the Jews who had come along with her were crying also.
Jesus was in Bethany. He was in the home of Simon, who had a skin disease.
Throw Out the Evil Person!
So what should I do? I will pray with my spirit. But I will also pray with my understanding. I will sing with my spirit. But I will also sing with my understanding.
Celebrating the Lord’s Supper in the Right Way
Your Father knows that you need them
Dont give in to them
We want each of you to be faithful to the very end. If you are, then what you hope for will fully happen.
Dont do anything only to get ahead
“If you do not judge other people, then you will not be judged. If you do not find others guilty, then you will not be found guilty. Forgive, and you will be forgiven.
Pay their expenses so they can have their heads shaved
And why did he murder him?
You go and tell others about Gods kingdom
How can I be sure of this
You can do this now that you have tasted how good the Lord is.The Living Stone and a Chosen People
Some techers of the law were sitting there They were thinking
His family heard about this So they went to take charge of him They said He is out of his mind
The beast I saw looked like a leopard.
Fathers don’t make your children angry.
Slaves, obey your earthly masters in everything. Don’t do it just to please them when they are watching you. Obey them with an honest heart. Do it out of respect for the Lord.
We are known, but people treat us as if we were unknown.
Don’t you have a saying? You say, ‘It’s still four months until harvest time.’ But I tell you, open your eyes! Look at the fields! They are ripe for harvest right now.
He's younger than me.
God has made a great many promises They are all Yes because of what Christ has done So through Christ we say Amen We want God to receive glory
I have much more to say to you
Jesus replied And why dont you obey Gods command You would rather follow your own teachings
The Son of the Most High God will rule forever over his people. They are from the family line of Jacob. That kingdom will never end.”
When I preached I clearly showed you that Jesus Christ had been nailed to the cross
Its gates will never be shut, because there will be no night there.
Teach one another by singing psalms and hymns and songs from the Spirit
Out of the temple came the seven angels who were bringing the seven plagues They were dressed in clean shining linen They wore gold strips of cloth around their chests
Everything that belongs to the Father is mine.
The Pharisees gathered around Jesus So did some of the teachers of the law All of them had come from Jerusalem
Jesus Feeds Five Thousand
Didnt Israel understand
“Everyone who is supposed to be captured will be captured.
The disciples answered, “We have only five loaves of bread and two fish. We would have to go and buy food for all this crowd.”
We were not expecting people to praise us We were not looking for praise from you or anyone else
But here is how God has shown his love for us. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
But they didnt find his body So they came and told us what they had seen They saw angels who said Jesus was alive
It will be like that with bodies that are raised from the dead
From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free. But the Jewish leaders kept shouting, “If you let this man go, you are not Caesar’s friend! Anyone who claims to be a king is against Caesar!”
Pour her a double dose of what she has poured for others
She got up right away and began to serve them.
Their teaching will spread like a deadly sickness.
One person’s faith allows them to eat anything. But another person eats only vegetables because their faith is weak.
Women should remain silent in church meetings. They are not allowed to speak. They must follow the lead of those who are in authority, as the law says.
Then Jesus turned to his disciples He said to them in private Blessed are the eyes that see what you see
That foundation is Jesus Christ
He used to live here
About five thousend men were there
In the same way I want the women to be careful how they dress
What you are accepting is really not the good news at all. It seems that some people have gotten you all mixed up. They are trying to twist the good news about Christ.
Pray for us
So he made them leave.
They arrested Stephen and brought him to the Sanhedrin
Mary said.“My soul gives glory to the Lord.
Abraham had faith. So when God tested him, Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice.
And do not make a promise in your own name You cant make even one hair of your head white or black
“What does he mean by ‘a little while’?
I’m talking to people who are reasonable. Judge for yourselves what I say.
they shouted, “Crucify him! Crucify him!”
There was something that looked like a sea of glass in front of the throne. It was as clear as crystal.
Their blossoms fall
But by the Spirit’s power you can put to death the sins you commit. Then you will live.
Dont make trouble
These peoples hearts have become stubborn
They knew God But they didnt honor him as God
Then the high priest questioned Stephen.
Blessed are those who are humble
Then they are fooling themselves
All who were sitting in the Sanhedrin looked right at Stephen. They saw that his face was like the face of an angel.
This is the same Moses who spoke to the Israelites God will send you a prophet he said He will be like me He will come from your own people
“Suppose you love those who love you. Should anyone praise you for that? Even sinners love those who love them.
“I was found by those who were not trying to find me.
Jesus looked at them and said With people this is impossible But with God all things are possible
Then Peter realized what had happened. He said, “Now I know for sure that the Lord has sent his angel. He set me free from Herod’s power. He saved me from everything the Jewish people were hoping would happen.”
I continued working
He was blessed by Gods grace
Instead, be joyful that you are taking part in Christ’s sufferings. Then you will have even more joy when Christ returns in glory.
“You have sent people to John the Baptist. He has been a witness to the truth.
This one came out of the earth.
And Abraham is also the father of those who are circumcised and believe So just being circumcised is not enough Those who are circumcised must also follow the steps of our father Abraham He had faith before he was circumcised
Jesus came as a human being.
But the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard about this So they tore their clothes
Dear friends
The Wise Men went to the house There they saw the child with his mother Mary They bowed down and worshiped him Then they opened their treasures They gave him gold frankincense and myrrh
The men grabbed Jesus and arrested him.
It was a huge red dragon
Also in the Amhara region before here with the armed forces of the Tigray region now also the interior has fallen into unknown conflict and war።
At that time they had a well-known prisoner named Jesus Barabbas
More than that we would be lying about God We are witnesses that God raised Christ from the dead But he did not raise him if the dead are not raised
It grew up and produced a crop one hundred times more than the farmer planted.”
He came to set free those who were under the authority of the law
We have a high priest who has been tempted in every way just as we are
Your young men will see visions.
I saw the seven angels who stand in front of God Seven trumpets were given to them
They will fall down and worship God. They will exclaim, “God is really here among you!”
Then Jesus said to him Follow me
All their glory is like the flowers in the field
They saw something that looked like fire in the shape of tongues. The flames separated and came to rest on each of them.
Godly Jews buried Stephen. They mourned deeply for him.
When they arrived in Jerusalem the church welcomed them The apostles and elders welcomed them too
Live so that you don’t have to feel you’ve done anything wrong. Some people may say evil things about your good conduct as believers in Christ. If they do, they will be put to shame for speaking like this about you.
The angel said, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul. You must go on trial in front of Caesar.
Because of what the Son has done, we have been set free. Because of him, all our sins have been forgiven.
First, here is what people are telling me. When you come together as a church, you take sides. And in some ways I believe it.
He gave in.
Remember Jesus Christ He came from Davids family line He was raised from the dead That is my good news
Enoch had faith So he was taken from this life He didnt die He couldnt be found because God had taken him away  Before God took him Enoch was praised as one who pleased God
Then the four living creatures and the  elders fell down in front of the Lamb. Each one had a harp.
They will see his face
She gave birth to a son. He “will rule all the nations with an iron scepter.”  And her child was taken up to God and to his throne.
May God give peace to all of you who believe in Christ
Two Kinds of Olive Branches
“Rabboni!” Rabboni means Teacher.
Brothers and sisters dont ever get tired of doing what is good
Those who mourn should live as if they did not. Those who are happy should live as if they were not. Those who buy something should live as if it were not theirs to keep.
The Lord is not slow to keep his promise. He is not slow in the way some people understand it. Instead, he is patient with you. He doesn’t want anyone to be destroyed. Instead, he wants all people to turn away from their sins.
I am the Alpha and the Omega.
Men continue to be brave
But Timothy has come to us from you just now. He has brought good news about your faith and love. He has told us that you always have happy memories of us. He has also said that you desire to see us, just as we desire to see you.
So go ahead and finish the sins that those who lived before you started
I say it again. Every man who lets him be circumcised must obey the whole law.
We know it because of the Holy Spirit he gave us
“When you enter a town and are welcomed, eat what is given to you.
They told you In the last days some people will make fun of the truth They will follow their own ungodly desires
Jesus saw them and said Go Show yourselves to the priests While they were on the way they were healed
They will kill some.
“We are disciples of Moses!
But what does Scripture say? “Get rid of the slave woman. Get rid of her son. The slave woman’s son will never have a share of the family’s property. He’ll never share it with the free woman’s son.”
When widows are in trouble, take care of them. Do the same for children who have no parents.
There were flashes of lightning, rumblings and thunder, an earthquake and a severe hailstorm.
Or are you the only people it has reached
And they are still like that today
Not everyone is a believer
A woman there had been disabled by an evil spirit for  years. She was bent over and could not stand up straight.
My brothers and sisters
Then God would forgive them.
God says in Hosea,
A person is worth more than sheep So the Law allows us to do good on the Sabbath day
Every day I was with you in the temple courtyard. And you didn’t lay a hand on me. But this is your hour. This is when darkness rules.”
“I am the vine. You are the branches. If you remain joined to me, and I to you, you will bear a lot of fruit. You can’t do anything without me.
Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Holy Spirit. News about him spread through the whole countryside.
I will put my laws in their minds.
Remain strong in the faith and you will receive eternal life
He came to Simon Peter. “Lord,” Peter said to him, “is you going to wash my feet?”
Don’t pay back evil with evil. Don’t pay back unkind words with unkind words. Instead, pay back evil with kind words. This is what you have been chosen to do. You will receive a blessing by doing this.
But Sarah believed that the God who made the promise was faithful
The sight was terrifying. Moses said, “I am trembling with fear.”
Let the message about Christ live among you like a rich treasure
I know that your spiritual life is going well
The kingdom of heaven is like a man who owned land He went out early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard
Zechariah’s Song
So my heart is glad and joy is on my tongue
Everyone became quiet as they listened to Barnabas and Paul. They were telling about the signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.
The disciples crossed over to the other side of the lake They had forgotten to take bread
I will put my laws in their hearts
If anyone says anything to you, say that the Lord needs them. The owner will send them right away.”
I respect the elderly
So we don’t spend all our time looking at what we can see. Instead, we look at what we can’t see.
He said to them, “You know that it is against our law for a Jew to enter a Gentile home. A Jew shouldn’t have any close contact with a Gentile.
But Jesus said to them A prophet is honored everywhere except in his own town and in his own home
Then I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice that sounded like thunder
The sound of their wings was like the thundering of many horses and chariots rushing into battle.
“I have told you all this so that you will not turn away from the truth.
Then I was told about a plan against the man. So I sent him to you at once. I also ordered those bringing charges against him to present their case to you.
They say The old wine is better
He did it to make her holy He made her clean by washing her with water and the word
Later that night the boat was in the middle of the Sea of Galilee Jesus was alone on land
Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh.Manasseh was the father of Amon.Amon was the father of Josiah.
This tent was not made with human hands
You cant come where I am going
“My Father has given all things to me.
My dear children, I am in pain for you like I was when we first met. I have pain like a woman giving birth. And my pain will continue until Christ makes you like himself.
The believers tried to keep Paul from going on to Jerusalem They were led by the Holy Spirit to do this
“The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham. At that time Abraham was still in Mesopotamia. He had not yet begun living in Harran.
He is a faithful worker
Those who praise themselves are not accepted Those the Lord praises are accepted
One day Jesus said to his disciples Lets go over to the other side of the lake
Then Pilate went back inside the palace He ordered Jesus to be brought to him Pilate asked him Are you the king of the Jews
Many people commanded him to stop. They told him to be quiet. But he shouted even louder, “Son of David! Have mercy on me!”
“You are God. Your throne will last for ever and ever.
He has broken the power of death. Because of the good news, he has brought life out into the light. That life never dies.
“A dog returns to where it has thrown up.”
I am absolutely sure that not even death or life can separate us from God’s love. Not even angels or demons, the present or the future, or any powers can separate us.
He burned them to ashes
When they heard this, they became very angry. They began shouting, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”
Joseph had not agreed with what the leaders had decided and done He was from Arimathea a town in Judea He himself was waiting for Gods kingdom
They had gathered together to make war against the rider on the horse and his army.
All who heard what had happened were filled with fear
Festus spent eight or ten days in Jerusalem with them Then he went down to Caesarea
But you refuse to come to me and receive life.
should we look for someone else?”
Then one of the elders spoke to me Who are these people dressed in white robes he asked Where did they come from
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon and Hermes. Greet Patrobas, Hermas and the other brothers and sisters with them.
God did all this to prove in our own time that he does what is right He also makes right with himself those who believe in Jesus
Jesus did nothing until halfway through the feast.
The mark is the name of the beast or the number of its name
Jesus said to them, “Go!” So the demons came out of the men and went into the pigs. The whole herd rushed down the steep bank. They ran into the lake and drowned in the water.
The person who was a slave when the Lord chose them is now the Lords free person The one who was free when God chose them is now a slave of Christ
Don’t you know that just a little yeast makes the whole batch of dough rise?
We are sending this letter to you, the members of the church in Thessalonica. You belong to God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
don’t be surprised if the world hates you.
Abraham had faith. So he obeyed God. God called him to go to a place he would later receive as his own.
If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Even the tax collectors do that.
So don’t be ashamed of the message about our Lord.
I did not know him. But God wants to make it clear to Israel who this person is. That’s the reason I came baptizing with water.”
So who can brag
Then another angel came out of the temple. He called in a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud. “Take your blade,” he said. “Cut the grain. The time has come. The earth is ready to be harvested.”
Each of us should please our neighbors Let us do what is good for them in order to build them up
He prophesied that Jesus would die for the Jewish nation.
Where is this man they asked him
“Go! Stand in the temple courtyard,” the angel said. “Tell the people all about this new life.”
was given to her to wear.”
But anyone who says yes to the Son belongs to the Father also.
And that is not all.
When she saw Peter warming himself, she looked closely at him.
That will happen in a flash as quickly as you can wink an eye It will happen at the blast of the last trumpet Then the dead will be raised to live forever And we will be changed
The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle. She was given these wings so that she could fly away. She could fly to the place prepared for her in the desert. There she would be taken care of for three and a half years. She would be out of the serpent’s reach.
So they came and said they were sorry They led them out of the prison
Pick up your mat and walk
Then the disciple Jesus loved said to Simon Peter It is the Lord
It was winter.
So encourage one another with the hope you have Build each other up In fact thats what you are doing
Keep reminding Gods people of these things
God never said to any of the angels
May I ask why you sent for me?”
The Letter to the Church in Ephesus
Fine linen, bright and clean,
-So I will just have him whipped and let him go.”
Are you greater than our father Abraham? He died.
No one gave it to me. No one taught it to me.
We must control ourselves We must do what is right We must lead godly lives in todays world
He's doing his best.
“‘I will strike the shepherd down.
I won't do this again.
Suppose a person claims to have faith but doesnt act on their faith
Here he is He is speaking openly
Jesus replied, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your mind.’
But God has helped me to this day
The truth is not in us.
Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. He traveled along the border between Samaria and Galilee.
“Every eye will see him.Even those who pierced him will see him.”
But you dear friends build yourselves up in your most holy faith Let the Holy Spirit guide and help you when you pray
Give thanks no matter what happens God wants you to thank him because you believe in Christ Jesus
The Spirit marks us as God’s own. We can now be sure that someday we will receive all that God has promised.
We belong to God. And those who know God listen to us. But those who don’t belong to God don’t listen to us. That’s how we can tell the difference between the Spirit of truth and the spirit of lies.
Then Cornelius can hear what you have to say
I found it by chance.
He replied, “You say that I am.”
That night they didn’t catch anything.
Everything that is hidden will be uncovered.
Let us hold firmly to the hope we claim to have. The God who promised is faithful.
It was the last and most important day of the feast. Jesus stood up and spoke in a loud voice. He said, “Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink.
And he will continue to do it.
I saw heaven standing open.
Were you a slave when God chose you? Don’t let it trouble you. But if you can get your master to set you free, do it.
Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself
Suppose the priestly system could have made people perfect.
may peace be given to those he is pleased with on earth!”
We worked very hard so that we wouldn’t cause any expense to any of you.
Titus didn’t take advantage of you, did he?
Instead you should give thanks
Listen carefully to what I am about to tell you
The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water.
He tried to make peace between them Men you are both Israelites he said Why do you want to hurt each other
The Son of Man will come in all his glory All the angels will come with him Then he will sit in glory on his throne
So dont live under the control of sin If you do you will think about what sin wants Live under the control of the Holy Spirit If you do you will think about what the Spirit wants
Still other seed fell on good soil. It produced a crop ,  or  times more than what was planted.
Sardis,
He had amazed them for a long time with his evil magic. So they followed him.
“What I’m about to tell you is true. Some who are standing here will not die before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.”
Isn’t he coming to the feast at all?”
The second angel blew his trumpet.
Here is how we know that we love God’s children. We know it when we love God and obey his commands.
I have shown you to them.
Seven Leaders Are Chosen
There is a fire that never goes out Those people are an example of those who are punished with it
He is angry with you
So everything will be destroyed in this way
Look, your house is left empty. I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, ‘Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ”
Will anyone honor you for this Of course not
After this Paul left Athens and went to Corinth
The first creature looked like a lion The second looked like an ox The third had a mans face The fourth looked like a flying eagle
“It will be just like that on the day the Son of Man is shown to the world.
You guys looked mad
Then a third of the sun was struck. A third of the moon was struck.
They would rather have statues of gods than the glorious God who lives forever
Reu was the son of Peleg.
This is good, and it pleases God our Savior.
“Crucify him!” the crowd shouted.
Are we beginning to praise ourselves again?
No one from that tribe has ever served at the altar
He sent messengers on ahead.
Jesus called together the twelve disciples.
We do it even though people have been created to be like God
If they have a question about something, they should ask their own husbands at home.
Simon himself believed and was baptized.
Then Peter said Ananias why did you let Satan fill your heart
God also showed that this message is true by the gifts of the Holy Spirit God gave them out as it pleased him
God has trusted us with the message that people may be brought back to him
Wait here.
He saved us. It wasn’t because of the good things we had done. It was because of his mercy. He saved us by washing away our sins. We were born again. The Holy Spirit gave us new life.
Abraham was past the time when he could have children. But many children came from that one man. They were as many as the stars in the sky. They were as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. No one could count them.
Jesus and his disciples sailed to the area of the Gerasenes across the lake from Galilee
So you too should be glad and joyful with me.
That will continue until we all become one in the faith We will also become one in the knowledge of Gods Son Then we will be grown up in the faith We will receive everything that Christ has for us
It is really at work in you who believe.
After this Jesus left the house
Jesus got into a boat His disciples followed him
Some time ago Theudas appeared. He claimed he was really somebody. About  people followed him. But he was killed. All his followers were scattered. So they accomplished nothing.
we are certainly not sorry about that
Let us put up three shelters
The seventh was made out of chrysolite
They are saved because of the law that requires faith.
Peter took Jesus to one side and began to scold him Never Lord he said This will never happen to you
But Christ did not enter heaven to offer himself again and again.
His clothes became so white they shone. They were whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them.
Whoever belongs to God hears what God says
Dear friends here is one thing you must not forget With the Lord a day is like a thousand years And a thousand years are like a day
I will store my extra grain in them
It said You are my Son and I love you
Enoch had faith So he was taken from this life
I am coming to see you. Please don’t make me be as bold as I expect to be toward some people. They think that I live the way the people of this world live.
Because of what Christ has done you believe in God It was God who raised him from the dead And it was God who gave him glory So your faith and hope are in God
But the time will come when the groom will be taken away from them On that day they will go without eating
Don’t fool yourselves.
When we were ready to sail, they gave us the supplies we needed.
Brothers and sisters, we should always thank God for you. That is only right, because your faith is growing more and more. We also thank God that the love you all have for one another is increasing.
Go Jesus replied Your son will live
From there we headed out to sea again. We passed the calmer side of Cyprus because the winds were against us.
Here are some examples Certain objects make sounds Take a flute or a harp No one will know what the tune is unless different notes are played
By doing this, he could break the power of the devil. The devil is the one who rules over the kingdom of death.
A man named Lazarus was placed at his gate. Lazarus was a beggar. His body was covered with sores.
No one understands.
So Jesus told them, “The time for me to show who I really am is not here yet.
I want us to encourage one another in the faith we share.
Isnt it because of your sinful desires
It was now about noon Then darkness covered the whole land until three oclock
Let the peace that Christ gives rule in your hearts. As parts of one body, you were appointed to live in peace.
He saw that Peter and John were about to enter So he asked them for money
Now send men to Joppa. Have them bring back a man named Simon. He is also called Peter.
This was before John was put in prison
Now angels are stronger and more powerful than these people But even angels dont speak evil things against heavenly beings They dont do this when they bring judgment on them from the Lord
It is actually reported that there is sexual sin among you Im told that a man is sleeping with his fathers wife Even people who dont know God dont let that kind of sin continue
Then the man of sin will appear The Lord Jesus will overthrow him with the breath of his mouth The glorious brightness of Jesus coming will destroy the man of sin
A few days later, Jesus entered Capernaum again. The people heard that he had come home.
In secret they will bring in teachings that will destroy you. They will even turn against the Lord and Master who died to pay for their sins.
So the temple authorities arrested Peter and John. It was already evening, so they put them in prison until the next day.
After Paul had seen the vision, we got ready at once to leave for Macedonia.
Do it because you know that you also have a Master in heaven
Pilate was surprised to hear that Jesus was already dead. So he called for the Roman commander. He asked him if Jesus had already died.
David himself calls him ‘Lord.’ So how can he be David’s son?”
This early public holiday of Wagga the Shadei holiday became possible after the  year of its publication to inform the country as well as the world 
So he ordered that Paul be taken into the fort.
outside is everyone who loves and does what is false.
Jesus said to him, “Let dead people bury their own dead. You go and tell others about God’s kingdom.”
Two other men were crucified with him
And sometimes those who aren’t circumcised do what the law requires. Won’t God accept them as if they had been circumcised?
Many are bragging the way the people of the world do So I will brag like that too You are so wise You gladly put up with fools
I am too busy to go
“How terrible for you, teachers of the law and Pharisees! You pretenders! You clean the outside of a cup and dish. But on the inside you are full of greed. You only want to satisfy yourselves.
Live in peace
And they stayed there a long time with the believers
Let we give thanks to God for his gift. It is so great that no one can tell how wonderful it really is!
So the law was put in charge of us until Christ came He came so that we might be made right with God by believing in Christ
God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose
He has not become a priest because of a rule about his family line He has become a priest because of his powerful life His life can never be destroyed
But I would rather have you prophesy.
Do all have gifts of healing Do all speak in languages they had not known before Do all explain what is said in those languages
Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard. It was an expensive perfume. She poured it on Jesus’ feet and wiped them with her hair. The house was filled with the sweet smell of the perfume.
“No,” Peter replied. “I’m not!”
I am not good enough to untie his sandals.”
I say to you that many will come from the east and the west They will take their places at the feast in the kingdom of heaven They will sit with Abraham Isaac and Jacob
So no one should separate what God has joined together
Then the Jewish leaders asked him, “What sign can you show us to prove your authority to do this?”
Then the Jewish leaders took Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace of the Roman governor. By now it was early morning. The Jewish leaders did not want to be made “unclean.” They wanted to be able to eat the Passover meal. So they did not enter the palace.
You know that God is right and always does what is right And you know that everyone who does what is right is Gods child
Love must be honest and true.
Men he said I can see that our trip is going to be dangerous
I didn’t say anything in secret.
Bethany was less than two miles from Jerusalem.
Then he was placed outside But Pharaohs daughter took him home She brought him up as her own son
And he brought Simon to Jesus
But you Bethlehem in the land of Judahare certainly not the least important among the towns of JudahA ruler will come out of you
I tell you, no! But unless you turn away from your sins, you will all die too.
Women should remain silent in church meetings. They are not allowed to speak.
After going through Pisidia, Paul and Barnabas came into Pamphylia.
He cuts off every branch joined to me that does not bear fruit.
I ran a race with him
We were not expecting people to praise us. We were not looking for praise from you or anyone else. Yet as Christ’s apostles, we could have used our authority over you.
But Jesus answered You give them something to eat
I wish I were young.
“Yes. You have said so,” Jesus replied.
As they sailed Jesus fell asleep
Jesus and his disciples went on their way. Jesus came to a village where a woman named Martha lived.
This was the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead
Here are the words of the Son of God He is Jesus whose eyes are like blazing fire His feet are like polished bronze He says
We gave you hope and strength.
But the chief priests stirred up the crowd. So the crowd asked Pilate to let Barabbas go free instead.
But even angels don’t speak evil things against heavenly beings. They don’t do this when they bring judgment on them from the Lord.
He replied In the evening you look at the sky You say It will be good weather The sky is red
The whole city was stirred up.
First Christ said You didnt want sacrifices and offerings You didnt want burnt offerings and sin offerings You werent pleased with them He said this even though they were offered in keeping with the law
The Lords message rang out from you That was true not only in Macedonia and Achaia Your faith in God has also become known everywhere So we dont have to say anything about it
obey your masters out of deep respect for God Obey not only those who are good and kind Obey also those who are not kind
May God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give peace to the brothers and sisters May they also give the believers love and faith
Even though I am nothing, I am in no way less important than the “super-apostles.”
“I have told you these things, so that you can have peace because of me. In this world you will have trouble. But be encouraged! I have won the battle over the world.”
So when I come I will point out what he is doing He is saying evil things that arent true about us
So I tell you this Her many sins have been forgiven She has shown that she understands this by her great acts of love
Moses was faithful in everything he did in the house of God. In the same way, Jesus was faithful to the God who appointed him.
He said that Saul had seen the Lord. He told how the Lord had spoken to Saul.
When anyone lives in Christ the new creation has come The old is gone The new is here
Isnt he coming to the feast at all
Jesus said I am with you for only a short time
David did not go up to heaven. But he said,
How terrible it will be for me if I do not preach the good news!
At that very moment I was able to see him
Even Jesus’ own brothers did not believe in him.
Because they tried to do it without faith. They tried to be right with God by what they did.
Scripture says, “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will go up into heaven?’ ”
But I know him. I am from him, and he sent me.”
All of you, put on a spirit free of pride toward one another. Put it on as if it were your clothes.
Then the Pharisees went out and began to make plans with the Herodians. They wanted to kill Jesus.
If Christ lives in you you will live Though your body will die because of sin the Spirit gives you life The Spirit does this because you have been made right with God
Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord.
But no one asked What do you want from her
It was cold The slaves and officials stood around a fire They had made it to keep warm
We work together to serve God.
As soon as Jesus and his disciples got out people recognized him
Every wrong thing we do is sin.
But whoever is joined to the Lord becomes one with him in spirit
I want to keep moving
Your sons and daughters will prophesy
Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been set free. But he has made an appeal to Caesar.”
Some people may say evil things about your good conduct as believers in Christ.
All the angels were standing around the throne.
He replied It is not right to take the childrens bread and throw it to the dogs
But you have a few people in Sardis who are pure They arent covered with evil like dirty clothes They will walk with me dressed in white because they are worthy
Here is a boy with five small loaves of barley bread He also has two small fish
Here is what love is. It is not that we loved God. It is that he loved us and sent his Son to give his life to pay for our sins.
Again they tried to arrest him. But he escaped from them.
In the same way, good works are easy to see.
It is written The bad things people have said about you have been aimed at me also
With our tongues we praise our Lord and Father With our tongues we curse people
Some of those standing nearby heard Jesus cry out. They said, “Listen! He’s calling for Elijah.”
He commanded me not to preach with wisdom and fancy words.That would take all the power away from the cross of Christ.
Here are some examples. Certain objects make sounds. Take a flute or a harp. No one will know what the tune is unless different notes are played.
They went off by themselves to a town called Bethsaida
But suppose you suffer for doing good and you put up with it
I don't speak German.
You already have everything you want dont you
Dont you have a saying You say Its still four months until harvest time
So they said, “It must be his angel.”
The Holy Spirit and the bride say,
The Jews grabbed Paul. They were about to kill him. But I came with my soldiers and saved him. I had learned that he is a Roman citizen.
You look at the bit of sawdust in your friends eye But you pay no attention to the piece of wood in your own eye
Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, left the Jordan River.
When they found him, they called out, “Everyone is looking for you!”
they don’t know him because their hearts are stubborn.
Remain joined to me, just as I also remain joined to you.
Jesus who is called Justus also sends greetings
At dawn, Jesus went out to a place where he could be by himself.
the other has still not come
Is it oxen that God is concerned about?
In the past God gave us grace through the Law of Moses
It had the golden altar for incense. It also had the wooden chest called the Ark of the Covenant. The ark was covered with gold. It held the gold jar of manna. It held Aaron’s walking stick that had budded. It also held the stone tablets. The words of the covenant were written on them.
“ ‘No,’ the owner answered. ‘While you are pulling up the weeds, you might pull up the wheat with them.
Send him safely on his way so he can return to me.
Peter said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will put up three shelters. One will be for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”
So suppose what I eat causes my brother or sister to fall into sin. Then what should I do? I will never eat meat again. In that way, I will not cause them to fall.
When you pray do not keep talking on and on That is what ungodly people do They think they will be heard because they talk a lot
The Holy Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” And the person who hears should say, “Come!” Anyone who is thirsty should come. Anyone who wants to take the free gift of the water of life should do so.
I am not here on my own authority. The one who sent me is true.
The person who was a slave when the Lord chose them is now the Lord’s free person.
People will be saying that everything is peaceful and safe Then suddenly they will be destroyed It will happen like birth pains coming on a pregnant woman None of the people will escape
Day and night, they never stop saying,
The next day the south wind came up. The day after that, we reached Petiole.
I am happy because of what I am suffering for you My suffering joins with and continues the sufferings of Christ I suffer for his body which is the church
Slaves do not know their master’s business.
But they could not get him close to Jesus because of the crowd So they made a hole by digging through the roof above Jesus Then they lowered the man through it on a mat
Say with your mouth, “Jesus is Lord.” Believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. Then you will be saved.
You will be made rich in every way. Then you can always give freely.
The younger son spoke to his father. He said, ‘Father, give me my share of the family property.’ So the father divided his property between his two sons.
The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the land. Ugly and painful sores broke out on people. Those people had the mark of the beast and worshiped its statue.
But you are a man of God
That is where Bethlehem the town of David was Joseph went there because he belonged to the family line of David
Then you will completely understand every good thing we share by believing in Christ
But he said I must announce the good news of Gods kingdom to the other towns also
I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, ‘Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ”
Shut up
But you remain
He will rule all the nations with an iron scepter.
He gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to heal sicknesses.
Anyone who does not love me will not obey my teaching The words you hear me say are not my own They belong to the Father who sent me
Even more, I consider everything to be nothing compared to knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. To know him is worth much more than anything else. Because of him I have lost everything. But I consider all of it to be garbage so I can know Christ better.
Heal those who are sick Bring those who are dead back to life Make those who have skin diseases clean again Drive out demons You have received freely so give freely
The promise comes through faith in Jesus Christ.
So I have asked to see you and talk with you.”
She has been a great help to many people, including me.
Suppose we claim we are without sin Then we are fooling ourselves
“Come now. Let us leave.
Think how great Melchizedek was
I have the same hope in God that these men themselves have I believe that both the godly and the ungodly will rise from the dead
Neri was the son of Melki
because many demons had gone into him.
Besides, we have all had human fathers who trained us. We respected them for it. How much more should we be trained by the Father of spirits and live!
Instead, instruct them and teach them the ways of the Lord as you raise them.
So God’s word spread. The number of believers in Jerusalem grew quickly. Also, a large number of priests began to obey Jesus’ teachings.
No one from that tribe has ever served at the altar.
The Spirit of the God who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you
Didnt the people of Israel hear
The apostles returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives. It is just over half a mile from the city.
The Holy Spirit Comes at Pentecost
So here is what I’m asking you to do. Don’t lose hope because I am suffering for you. It will lead to the time when God will give you his glory.
The Lord will carry out his sentence.
“The Lord helps me. I will not be afraid.
We have a high priest like that He sat down at the right hand of the throne of the King the Majesty in heaven
We put a small piece of metal in the mouth of a horse to make it obey us.
I will never desert you.”
I have come to do what you want my God
He is the one who comes after me. I am not good enough to untie his sandals.”
The eye can’t say to the hand, “I don’t need you!” The head can’t say to the feet, “I don’t need you!”
A young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window. He sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked on and on. Sound asleep, Eutychus fell from the third floor. When they picked him up from the ground, he was dead.
He is the man Christ Jesus.
But now you are the people of God.
but Christ lives in me
He replied, “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”
Again I ask,
Demetrius and the other skilled workers may feel they have been wronged by someone Let them bring charges The courts are open We have our governors
Let us be completely holy. We want to honor God.
The next morning some Jews gathered secretly to make plans against Paul They made a promise to themselves
But when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. He will not speak on his own. He will speak only what he hears. And he will tell you what is still going to happen.
because Herod was afraid of John. So he kept John safe. Herod knew John was a holy man who did what was right. When Herod heard him, he was very puzzled. But he liked to listen to John.
Annas, the high priest, was there. So were Caiaphas,
If this man had not come from God he could do nothing
Then Jesus called for his disciples to come to him. He said, “I feel deep concern for these people. They have already been with me three days. They don’t have anything to eat. I don’t want to send them away hungry. If I do, they will become too weak on their way home.”
One day the evil spirit answered them, “I know Jesus. And I know about Paul. But who are you?”
He is a faithful worker.
The people also did not turn away from their murders
Pray for one another so that you might be healed
You are blind! Which is more important? Is it the gift? Or is it the altar that makes the gift holy?
Do you see these huge buildings Jesus asked Not one stone here will be left on top of another Every stone will be thrown down
That was when I took them by the handI led them out of Egypt
Each person was judged by what they had done.
He thought to himself, ‘What should I do? I don’t have any place to store my crops.’
He will remember the love you have shown him
Melchizedek has no father or mother
With authority and power he gives orders to evil spirits
Another was Joanna, the wife of Chuza. He was the manager of Herod’s household. Susanna and many others were there also. These women were helping to support Jesus and the tewelve disciples with their own money.
Do it because you know that you also have a Master in heaven.
Don’t fool yourselves. Suppose some of you think you are wise by the standards of the world. Then you should become “fools” so that you can become wise.
Have you already begun to rule? And did you do that without us?
But I havent used any of those rights And Im not writing because I hope you will do things like that for me I would rather die than allow anyone to take away my pride in my work
But keep away from foolish disagreements
Even tax collectors came to be baptized
I have held them out to a stubborn people who do not obey me.”
They will kill him. On the third day he will rise from the dead.” Then the disciples were filled with deep sadness.
They will say, “Where is this ‘return’ he promised? Everything goes on in the same way it has since our people of long ago died. In fact, it has continued this way since God first created everything.”
Think about the ravens.
Dont let any evil talk come out of your mouths
It is full of mercy and good fruit.
These six brothers here went with me.
He will bring peace between parents and their children.
How do you feel now
Anyone who leads a life of love is joined to God
If that were true grace wouldnt be grace anymore
Not too far away Peter followed Jesus He went right into the courtyard of the high priest There he sat with the guards He warmed himself at the fire
But Jesus has been given a greater work to do for God. He is the go-between for the new covenant. This covenant is better than the old one. The new covenant is based on better promises.
During that time the people were waiting for Zechariah to come out of the temple
Personal Words
He has brought down rulers from their thrones
Some teachers of the law were there They had come down from Jerusalem  He is controlled by Beelzebul He is driving out demons by the power of the prince of demons
So from now on we don’t look at anyone the way the world does. At one time we looked at Christ in that way. But we don’t anymore.
But I tell you Elijah has already come People didnt recognize him They have done to him everything they wanted to do In the same way they are going to make the Son of Man suffer
they don’t pick grapes from bushes.
We want them to be grown up as people who belong to Christ
The angel who spoke to him left. Then Cornelius called two of his servants. He also called a godly soldier who was one of his attendants.
But Paul chose Silas. The believers asked the Lord to give his grace to Paul and Silas as they went.
Otherwise they might see with their eyes.
Then he gave them to the disciples to give to the people.
It is written,
This angel raised his right hand to heaven
He said Lord they have killed your prophets
Dear friend you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters You are faithful even though they are strangers to you
Right away one of them ran and got a sponge He filled it with wine vinegar and put it on a stick He offered it to Jesus to drink
These people are like springs without water. They are like mists driven by a storm. The blackest darkness is reserved for them.
That friend is the Spirit of truth. The world can’t accept him. That’s because the world does not see him or know him. But you know him. He lives with you, and he will be in you.
The beast was allowed to make war against Gods holy people and to overcome them It was given authority over every tribe people and nation no matter what language they spoke
And the only ones who know the Father are the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to make the Father known
These enemies left our community of believers.
Then they spoke to Paul Brother they said you see that thousands of Jews have become believers
but death will escape them
Watch out that you dont lose what we have worked for
In fact they are blind They have forgotten that their past sins have been washed away
Andrew was Simon Peters brother Andrew was one of the two disciples who heard what John had said He had also followed Jesus
Jesus went through all the towns and villages He taught in their synagogues He preached the good news of the kingdom And he healed every illness and sickness
Then all the people who lived in the area of the Gerasenes asked Jesus to leave them. They were filled with fear. So he got into the boat and left.
‘Friend,’ he asked, ‘how did you get in here without wedding clothes?’ The man couldn’t think of anything to say.
“You are my Son.
Until you have obeyed completely, I will be ready to punish you every time you don’t obey.
All God’s people here send their greetings.
They entered the tomb. As they did, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe. He was sitting on the right side. They were alarmed.
“He is the God who made the world. He also made everything in it. He is the Lord of heaven and earth. He doesn’t live in temples built by human hands.
When Jesus heard this he said This sickness will not end in death No it is for Gods glory
As a result the community is in trouble።
It can’t be changed after it has been made.
When they heard this, they were amazed. So they left him and went away.
But what I’m about to tell you is true. It is for your good that I am going away.
Another horse came out It was red like fire
Love must be honest and true. Hate what is evil. Hold on to what is good.
“I have obeyed all those commandments since I was a boy,” the ruler said.
If I send them away hungry they will become too weak on their way home Some of them have come from far away
Being circumcised means nothing
But they still did not believe it. They were amazed and filled with joy. So Jesus asked them, “Do you have anything here to eat?”
I will sing with my spirit
What is spiritual did not come first What is earthly came first What is spiritual came after that
Later Isaac became Jacobs father
When Moses heard this, he escaped to Midian. He lived there as an outsider. He became the father of two sons there.
Is God unfair?
We don’t know what we should pray for.
As you go preach this message The kingdom of heaven has come near
When the captain of the temple guards and the chief priests heard this report, they were bewildered.
I will bring glory to it again.”
One of Crete’s own prophets has a saying. He says, “People from Crete are always liars. They are evil beasts. They don’t want to work. They live only to eat.”
Instructions About Loving and Hating Other Believers
“Go,” it said.
Jesus also suffered outside the city gate He suffered to make the people holy by spilling his own blood
So be on your guard! Remember that for three years I never stopped warning you. Night and day I warned each of you with tears.
Spend your time preaching
The Son of Man is going to come in his Fathers glory His angels will come with him And he will reward everyone in keeping with what they have done
Nothing that has been made was made without him
When he died he died once and for all time He did this to break the power of sin Now that he lives he lives in the power of God
No One Is Right With God
If you believe this, you will have life because you belong to him.
In fact some have already turned away to follow Satan
He accepted her gift.
the kingdom of our Lord and of his Messiah
A spirit takes hold of him and he suddenly screams
Then he asked who Paul was and what he had done.
They were not afraid of the king’s command.
When Peter understood what had happened, he went to Mary’s house. Mary was the mother of John Mark. Many people had gathered in her home. They were praying there.
These people speak evil about things they dont understand
But I will punish the nation that makes them slaves God said
The cities of the nations crumbled and fell
A young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window.
Im playing a TV game
The soldiers also came up and poked fun at him They offered him wine vinegar
I want a girlfriend
He set free the man they asked for The man had been thrown in prison for murder and for fighting against the authorities Pilate handed Jesus over to them so they could carry out their plans
They all answered, “Crucify him!”
Then the father went to the other son He said the same thing The son answered I will sir But he did not go
and Judas Iscariot who would later hand Jesus over to his enemies
I am leaving at four.
That’s true. But they were broken off because they didn’t believe. You stand only because you do believe. So don’t be proud, but tremble.
In the inner circle, around the throne, were four living creatures. They were covered with eyes, in front and in back.
His father was sick in bed. The man suffered from fever and dysentery. So Paul went in to see him.
You have started living a new life. Your knowledge of how that life should have the Creator’s likeness is being made new.
Do I mean that food sacrificed to a statue of a god is anything
She earned a lot of money for her owners by doing this.
May the Lord make your love grow. May it be like a rising flood. May your love for one another increase. May it also increase for everyone else. May it be just like our love for you.
By doing that some people have welcomed angels without knowing it
But the things that come out of a person’s mouth come from the heart. Those are the things that make someone ‘unclean.’
Everything that is secret will be brought out into the open. Everything that is hidden will be uncovered.
Do not move around from house to house
Those who are God’s children will not keep on sinning.
Dont bother the teacher anymore
John had been saying to Herod It is against the Law for you to be married to your brothers wife
Brothers and sisters may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit Amen
He also keeps others from welcoming them
Any favor you do must be done because you want to do it not because you have to
I don’t feel I have done anything wrong.
In the same way, I’m speaking to you who are younger. Follow the lead of those who are older. All of you, put on a spirit free of pride toward one another. Put it on as if it were your clothes. Do this because Scripture says,
Some of the Pharisees said, “Jesus has not come from God.
So Christ himself gave the gift of the apostles to the church He gave the prophets and those who preach the good news And he also gave the pastors and teachers as a gift to the church
“Blessed are those who are spiritually needy.
“Anyone who loves their father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. Anyone who loves their son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
Herodias couldn’t forgive John for saying that. She wanted to kill him. But she could not,
So the rich man called out Father Abraham Have pity on me Send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water Then he can cool my tongue with it I am in terrible pain in this fire
Gods word lives in you
Instead, he was sent to a widow in Zarephath near Sidon.
But not during the feast they said The people may stir up trouble
He promised the good news long ago He announced it through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures
Their beauty is destroyed
“Don’t you understand yet?” Jesus asked them.
You are asking me to prove that Christ is speaking through me. He is not weak in dealing with you. He is powerful among you.
We were comforted not only when he came but also by the comfort you had given him.
Be like servants waiting for their master to return from a wedding dinner When he comes and knocks they can open the door for him at once
Or she can go back to her husband.
When he said this, they tried to arrest him.
Huge hailstones weighing about one hundred pounds each fell from the sky The hail crushed people
The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun. The sun was allowed to burn people with fire.
Finally I want all of you to agree with one another Be understanding Love one another Be kind and tender Be humble
They told the soldiers We want you to say His disciples came during the night They stole his body while we were sleeping
In just one hour you have been destroyed!’
Blessed are those who make peace.
Martha answered, “I know he will rise again. This will happen when people are raised from the dead on the last day.”
Here is your change
But someone will say,
Instead, it promises God that you will keep a clear sense of right and wrong.
Last year you were the first to give You were also the first to want to give
I like taking walks.
You have heard what was said to people who lived long ago They were told Do not commit murder  Anyone who murders will be judged for it
Show me your faith that doesn’t cause you to do good deeds.
Also believe that the Father is in me.
Jesus got into a boat. His disciples followed him.
They all gave a lot because they are rich But she gave even though she is poor She put in everything she had That was all she had to live on
Right away he could see He followed Jesus praising God When all the people saw it they also praised God
But they did not find any proof even though many false witnesses came forward
Suddenly there was a powerful earthquake It shook the prison from top to bottom
A good man says good things. These come from the good that is stored up in his heart. An evil man says evil things. These come from the evil that is stored up in his heart. A person’s mouth says everything that is in their heart.
It is a stone that causes people to trip
Oh please
“My friends, here is what I want you to know. I announce to you that your sins can be forgiven because of what Jesus has done.
But now I am going to the one who sent me. None of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’
A high priest like that really meets our need.
Look out
It was made known to the prophets that they were not serving themselves. Instead, they were serving you when they spoke about the things that you have now heard. Those who have preached the good news to you have told you these things. They have done it with the help of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Even angels long to look into these things.
His clothes became as bright as a flash of lightning.
Everyone will hate you because of me.
It was a woman wearing the sun like clothes.
Then in a vision the angel carried me away to a desert. There the Holy Spirit showed me a woman sitting on a bright red beast. It was covered with names that say evil things about God. It had seven heads and ten horns.
Jesus called the crowd to him He said Listen and understand
It makes the whole body impure.
But she has poured this perfume on my feet
“Suppose a servant knows the master’s wishes. But the servant doesn’t get ready and doesn’t do what the master wants. Then that servant will receive a heavy beating.
Again it says,
He was buried His tomb is still here today
Peter Goes to the House of Cornelius
So whether we live or die we belong to the Lord
Sing and make music from your heart to the Lord
Not at all! Yet I wouldn’t have known what sin was unless the law had told me.
he did not open his mouth.
“Then another slave came. He said, ‘Sir, here is your money. I have kept it hidden in a piece of cloth.
Thats because those two prophets had made them suffer
And they returned home
Her newsletter is about ten days of news and preparation as well as give us the feedback that the use of words should make
Was a man already circumcised when God chose him Then he should not become uncircumcised
For a long time he had not worn clothes or lived in a house. He lived in the tombs.
Do not love the world or anything in it. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in them.
He was waiting for the city that God planned and built
He said this while he was teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum.
When Jesus had finished praying he left with his disciples They crossed the Kidron Valley
A woman giving birth to a baby has pain. That’s because her time to give birth has come. But when her baby is born, she forgets the pain. She forgets because she is so happy that a baby has been born into the world.
He said to the disciple, “Here is your mother.”
Am I wrong?
Whoever has ears should listen.”
So the holy one that is born will be called the Son of God
But then the commandment came Sin came to life
Sin will no longer control you like a master Thats because the law does not rule you Gods grace has set you free
The man who had been healed by the miracle was over  years old.
They want what belongs to other people They fight and cheat They hate others They say mean things about other people
My brothers and sisters,
Jesus Heals a Man Who Had a Skin Disease
You are blind and foolish! Which is more important? Is it the gold? Or is it the temple that makes the gold holy?
The man sent a third slave. The renters wounded him and threw him out.
He told the crowd to sit down on the ground He took the seven loaves and gave thanks to God Then he broke them and gave them to his disciples They passed the pieces of bread around to the people
And here’s how we put our hearts at rest, knowing that God is watching.
So dont be foolish Instead understand what the Lord wants
Even while Jesus was speaking, many people believed in him.
The devil had caused them to believe lies He was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur That is where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown They will all suffer day and night for ever and ever
The king was very upset But he thought about his promise and his dinner guests So he did not want to say no to the girl
Suppose nothing had been wrong with that first covenant.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem. I went there to get to know Peter. I stayed with him for  days.
You can tell each tree by its fruit. Do people pick grapes from bushes? Do they pick figs from thorns?
MARK 
They didn’t recognize the place. But they decided to run the ship onto the beach if they could.
After Jesus drank he said, “It is finished.”
If the building doesn’t burn up, God will give the builder a reward for the work.
You have already had your easy life.
Erastus is the director of public works here in the city. He sends you his greetings. Our brother Quartus also greets you.
Ill make you happy
Brothers and sisters, we have a duty.
Jesus answered him What Im about to tell you is true Today you will be with me in paradise
As a result of this hearing I will have something to write
Jesus felt deep concern for them. He touched their eyes. Right away they could see. And they followed him.
So let us do all we can to live in peace.
Someone told him, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside. They want to see you.”
The mother of Zebedee’s sons came to Jesus. Her sons came with her. Getting on her knees, she asked a favor of him.
So he sent out two of his disciples. He told them, “Go into the city. A man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him.
God will judge the person who commits adultery. He will judge everyone who commits sexual sins.
So make yourselves humble. Put yourselves under God’s mighty hand. Then he will honor you at the right time.
“Come and see, Lord,” they replied.
Brothers and sisters, join together in following my example. You have us as a model. So pay close attention to those who live as we do.
But let us give thanks to God He gives us the victory because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done
What you learned was the truth about Jesus
I baptize you with water But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit
When Peter saw that disciple he asked Lord
Jesus Is Brought to Pilate
Brothers and sisters we want you to know what happens to those who die
I can win this time.
They mourned deeply for him
you will die in your sin.
Brothers and sisters remain strong in the faith
Because of what Christ has done, you believe in God.
He told him We have found the Messiah Messiah means Christ
all who earn their living from the sea
I returned to Jerusalem and was praying at the temple Then it seemed to me that I was dreaming
God accepts their faith. So their faith makes them right with him.
None I would need to come with new truth or knowledge Or I would need to come with a prophecy or a teaching
We have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place. He says Jesus will change the practices that Moses handed down to us.”
Salt is good But suppose it loses its saltiness How can you make it salty again Have salt among yourselves And be at peace with each other
What kind of body will they have?”
But when what is complete comes, the things that are not complete will pass away.
Suppose love is fulfilled among us.
John’s clothes were made out of camel’s hair. He had a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey.
Jesus said to her I am the resurrection and the life
But we can’t say everything about these things now.
And do not say Who will go down into the grave  That means to bring Christ up from the dead
Are you so foolish
Send him safely on his way so he can return to me
The stars have still another
“Just as the Father has loved me, I have loved you.
These ungodly people are like stains at the meals you share They have no shame They are shepherds who feed only themselves
Who serves as a soldier but doesnt get paid
So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.
Some people claim they are Jews but are not They are liars Their worship comes from Satan I will make them come and fall down at your feet I will make them say in public that I have loved you
‘He will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
If one part is honored, every part shares in its joy.
I have a duty both to Greeks and to non-Greeks. I have a duty both to wise people and to foolish people.
Then Gamaliel spoke to the Sanhedrin.
The law is only a shadow of the good things that are coming. It is not the real things themselves. The same sacrifices have to be offered over and over again. They must be offered year after year. That’s why the law can never make perfect those who come near to worship.
Thats because their eating is not based on faith
He told him the good news about Jesus.
No, I’ve been speaking with God as my witness. I’ve been speaking like a believer in Christ.
The first handful of dough that is offered is holy This makes all of the dough holy
I quit.
Jesus answered, “I told you I am he.
We should be proud of another freedom
It was the house of Titius Justus, a man who worshiped God.
After Jesus took the cup he gave thanks He said Take this cup and share it among yourselves
why do you plan to show yourself only to us Why not also to the world The Judas who spoke those words was not Judas Iscariot
He went to work for someone who lived in that country. That person sent the son to the fields to feed the pigs.
At the same time, they untied the ropes that held the rudders.
His body rotted away
So did the prophets
See what amazing love the Father has given us! Because of it, we are called children of God. And that’s what we really are! The world doesn’t know us because it didn’t know him.
So I am a slave to the law of sin
I tell you, many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see. But they didn’t see it. They wanted to hear what you hear. But they didn’t hear it.”
So Philip ran up to the chariot. He heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet.
Jesus had healed the woman on the Sabbath day. This made the synagogue leader angry. He told the people, “There are six days for work. So come and be healed on those days. But do not come on the Sabbath day.”
Instead I have called you friends I have told you everything I learned from my Father
We know that those who are children of God do not keep on sinning
But now you are in the light because of what the Lord has done.
The groom did not come for a long time. So the bridesmaids all grew tired and fell asleep.
But Jesus ordered them not to tell people about him.
an earthquake.
First they must be tested. Then let them serve as deacons if there is nothing against them.
The teachers of the law and the chief priests looked for a way to arrest Jesus at once.They knew he had told that story against them. But they were afraid of the people.
Jesus Is Asked for a Sign
We know that God spoke to Moses
But suppose someone does sin Then we have a friend who speaks to the Father for us
By that time it was late in the day. His disciples came to him. “There is nothing here,” they said. “It’s already very late.
Peter Explains His Actions
He scattered the seed on the ground. Some fell on a path.
What should we say then The people of Israel did not receive what they wanted so badly Those Israelites who were chosen did receive it But the rest of the people were made stubborn
No one sir she said
You were stubborn when you opposed me.”
Teacher he asked what must I do to receive eternal life
God chose the things of this world that are common and looked down on. God chose things considered unimportant to do away with things considered important.
He will make right win over wrong.
We would like to know what they mean.”
They are like clouds without rain
Then what is written will come true It says Death has been swallowed up It has lost the battle
His name is holy
But they have no roots So they last only a short time They quickly fall away from the faith when trouble or suffering comes because of the message
Glory has come to me because of my disciples.
I tell you I will not drink wine with you again until Gods kingdom comes
But Jesus lives forever So he always holds the office of priest
Peter said to Jesus Lord it is good for us to be here If you wish I will put up three shelters One will be for you one for Moses and one for Elijah
Suppose we say that we share life with God but still walk in the darkness.
He scattered the seed on the ground Some fell on a path Birds came and ate it up
You know how you should follow our example We worked when we were with you
The god of this world has blinded the minds of those who don’t believe. They can’t see the light of the good news that makes Christ’s glory clear. Christ is the likeness of God.
It always protects. It always trusts. It always hopes. It never gives up.
Love your enemies.
They might turn and then I would heal them
Then the high priest questioned Stephen
They dragged him out of the city. They began to throw stones at him to kill him. The people who had brought false charges against Stephen took off their coats. They placed them at the feet of a young man named Saul.
They also love to have the places of honor at dinners.
He said, “Suppose someone invites you to a wedding feast. Do not take the place of honor. A person more important than you may have been invited.
Other seed fell among thorns The thorns grew up and crowded out the plants So the plants did not bear grain
and see good days
The Holy Spirit clearly says that in the last days some people will leave the faith They will follow spirits that will fool them They will believe things that demons will teach them
The leaves of the tree bring healing to the nations
Those who sleep sleep at night Those who get drunk get drunk at night
When Ananias heard this, he fell down and died. All who heard what had happened were filled with fear?
When you do ask for something,
Do all have gifts of healing
So encourage one another with these words of comfort.
Then the Jews said, “See how much he loved him!”
I say this because many people have tried to fool others. These people have gone out into the world. They don’t agree that Jesus Christ came in a human body. People like this try to trick others. These people are like the great enemy of Christ.
The angel said to him,
Paul Wants to See the Believers in Thessalonica
After three days they found him in the temple courtyard. He was sitting with the teachers. He was listening to them and asking them questions.
And they tremble!
Then here is what I want you to remember Anyone who keeps a sinner from going astray will save them from death God will erase many sins by forgiving them
Once more Jesus felt very sad. He came to the tomb. It was a cave with a stone in front of the entrance.
They have left God’s way. They have wandered off. They follow the way of Balaam, son of Beor. He loved to get paid for doing his evil work.
He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet
Don’t have anything to do with that person. Then they will feel ashamed.
Are they serving Christ I am serving him even more
And then the third one married her One after another the seven brothers married her They all died None left any children
Another of his disciples spoke up. It was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
So when I was angry I made a promise
Then people will not speak evil things against God’s name and against what we teach.
Jesus Is Taken to the Sanhedrin
“If your brother or sister sins against you, go to them. Tell them what they did wrong. Keep it between the two of you. If they listen to you, you have won them back.
I'll let you decide.
Again they shouted
Here is what it is. I am able to preach the good news free of charge. And I can do this without using all my rights as a person who preaches the good news.
Some people enjoy pretending they arent proud They worship angels But dont let people like that judge you These people tell you every little thing about what they have seen
The Lamb broke open the third seal Then I heard the third living creature say Come I looked
But while everyone was sleeping, his enemy came. The enemy planted weeds among the wheat and then went away.
Through Christ we both come to the Father by the power of one Holy Spirit.
He poured his grace on us By giving us great wisdom and understanding
Some time after this, Jesus crossed over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. It is also called the Sea of Tiberias.
Spend your time preaching
But God gave it to Abraham as a free gift through a promise.
in my prayers I pray that now at last it may be Gods plan to open the way for me to visit you
I wish you were either one or the other
Obey the governors.
So your God has placed you above your companions.
From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings and thunder.
We worked, even though we have the right to receive help from you. We did it in order to be a model for you to follow.
Look I am coming soon Words of prophecy are written in this book Blessed is the person who obeys them
“Do not be amazed at this. A time is coming when all who are in their graves will hear his voice.
It will be the glory of your people Israel.”
Jesus Dies
The Apostles Heal Many People
Those who have been given a trust must prove that they are faithful
A go-between means that there is more than one side to an agreement But God didnt use a go-between when he made his promise to Abraham
After all, what is Apollos?
We were having a lot of trouble. It was far more than we could stand. We even thought we were going to die.
But dont use your freedom as an excuse to live under the power of sin
He has gone into heaven He is at Gods right hand
You have faith
I didn’t see a temple in the city. That’s because the Lamb and the Lord God who rules over all are its temple.
They were terrified. They asked each other, “Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him!”
God said
Because I don’t love you?
Jesus answered him, “What I’m about to tell you is true. Today you will be with me in paradise.”
Here is how you can recognize the Spirit of God.
Paul and some other prisoners were handed over to a Roman commander named Julius. He belonged to the Imperial Guard.
Forgive one another just as God forgave you because of what Christ has done
I am sending this letter to you the twelve tribes scattered among the nations
They left the room and began to talk with one another. “Why should this man die or be put in prison?” they said. “He has done nothing worthy of that!”
Also, demons came out of many people. The demons shouted, “You are the Son of God!”
I have received my full pay and have more than enough I have everything I need
Im saying those things for your own good Im not trying to hold you back
Heli was the son of Matthat
“But not during the feast,” they said. “The people may stir up trouble.”
Day and night there will be no rest for anyone who worships the beast and its statue
Some slaves have masters who are believers. They shouldn’t show their masters disrespect just because they are also believers.
The Father is the only one who knows who the Son is
How very rich are Gods wisdom and knowledge
“If the Lord had not cut the time short, no one would live. But because of God’s chosen people, he has shortened it.
We worship what we do know Salvation comes from the Jews
I saw a great white throne. And I saw God sitting on it. When the earth and sky saw his face, they ran away. There was no place for them.
Lydda was near Joppa The believers heard that Peter was in Lydda So they sent two men to him They begged him Please come at once
All of us get tripped up in many ways. Suppose someone is never wrong in what they say. Then they are perfect. They are able to keep their whole body under control.
People shouted at him and made fun of him
The city of Babylon made all the nations drink the strong wine of her terrible sins.”
Instead, we were like young children when we were with you.
If we died with him
So God let them continue to have their shameful desires Their women committed sexual acts that were not natural
Anyone who welcomes a little child like this one in my name welcomes me.
But soon she will be robbed of her greatness.”
But he has given proof of what he is like.
May the Lord Show mercy to all who live in the house of Onesiphorus.
Greetings and Praise to God
And they should continue to do good
Brothers and sisters, may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
But the way to do what God requires must begin by having faith in him
Their shame rises up like foam They are like falling stars
“ ‘Fallen!
But the time will come when the groom will be taken away from them. On that day they will go without eating.
I have a lot to write to you But I dont want to use paper and ink I hope I can visit you instead Then I can talk with you face to face That will make our joy complete
Demas has deserted me He has gone to Thessalonica He left me because he loved this world
At that time God’s word came to John, son of Zechariah, in the desert.
Here is what I mean. One of you says, “I follow Paul.” Another says, “I follow Apollos.” Another says, “I follow Peter.” And still another says, “I follow Christ.”
To others the same Spirit gives a message of knowledge
I don't believe that.
I will never desert you
I spent a night and a day in the open sea
Then I was told about a plan against the man So I sent him to you at once
I wrote to you for another special reason. I wanted to see if you could stand the test. I wanted to see if you could obey everything asked of you.
His neighbors and people who had seen him earlier begging asked questions
So I can speak openly to him
“I am he,” Jesus said.
It was the day before the Sabbath. That day was called Preparation Day. As evening approached,
What is our hope What is our joy When our Lord Jesus returns what is the crown we will delight in Isnt it you
“We can,” they answered.
By now it was after the Day of Atonement, a day of fasting. So Paul gave them a warning.
They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb
“What I’m about to tell you is true.
They talked about how he would be leaving them soon This was going to happen in Jerusalem
Huge hailstones weighing about  pounds each fell from the sky. The hail crushed people. And they spoke evil things against God because of the plague. That’s because the plague of hail was so terrible.
Never stop praying.
Then one of the four living creatures gave seven golden bowls to the seven angels The bowls were filled with the anger of God who lives for ever and ever
Suppose a brother or a sister has no clothes or food.
So we try our best to please him. We want to please him whether we are at home in our bodies or away from them.
And thats not all Rebekahs children were born at the same time by the same father He was our father Isaac
All angels are spirits who serve God sends them to serve those who will receive salvation
So you see that what he believed and what he did were working together What he did made his faith complete
Then I was told
I will sing with my spirit.
The great dragon was thrown down to the earth, and his angels with him. The dragon is that old serpent called the devil, or Satan. He leads the whole world astray.
I pray that you also may enjoy good health
I’m not saying you should pray about that sin.
I fell to the ground and heard a voice speak to me
But the Pharisees went out and planned how to kill Jesus
Even worse, he died on a cross!
Jesus Heals Many People
But now we have died to what used to control us. We have been set free from the law. Now we serve in the new way of the Holy Spirit. We no longer serve in the old way of the written law.
“Then how were your eyes opened?” they asked.
I am the true vine
What if a woman does not cover her head? She might as well have her hair cut off.
A large number of people followed Jesus. Some were women whose hearts were filled with sorrow. They cried loudly because of him.
I will never send away anyone who comes to me.
“You don’t know what you’re asking for,” Jesus said to them. “Can you drink the cup of suffering I am going to drink?”
I am not like those who commit adultery
Suppose love is fulfilled among us
Adam was the son of God.
and be separate,says the Lord.
But because of Gods grace I am what I am And his grace was not wasted on me No I have worked harder than all the other apostles But I didnt do the work Gods grace was with me
Every day they taught in the temple courtyards and from house to house. They never stopped telling people the good news that Jesus is the Messiah.
But they didnt understand what this meant
May this house be blessed with peace.
Their chests were covered with something that looked like armor made out of iron The sound of their wings was like the thundering of many horses and chariots rushing into battle
I dont judge a person who hears my words but does not obey them
The mind ruled by the power of sin is at war with God It does not obey Gods law It cant
The Lord will save me from every evil attack.
As you know we never praised you if we didnt mean it
Im going to the park
“The prophets of long ago were treated the same way. When these things happen to you, be glad and jump for joy. You will receive many blessings in heaven.
The third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and springs of water They became blood
In the morning as Jesus and his disciples walked along, they saw the fig tree. It was dried up all the way down to the roots.
Hasnt he chosen them to receive the kingdom Hasnt he promised it to those who love him
David says
After this I looked, and there in front of me was a door standing open in heaven.
Don’t pay back unkind words with unkind words.
They serve at a sacred tent
There he lived in a town called Nazareth So what the prophets had said about Jesus came true They had said that he would be called a Nazarene
Peter didn’t really know what he was saying.
They used the coins to buy a potters field just as the Lord commanded me
The hair on his head was white like wool, as white as snow.
Also, Cretans and Arabs are here. We hear all these people speaking about God’s wonders in our own languages!”
And here is what it is. Christ is in you. He is your hope of glory.
I am cold.
God lives in anyone who agrees that Jesus is the Son of God This kind of person remains joined to God
He was from Bethany the village where Mary and her sister Martha lived
The Spirit you received doesnt make you slaves Otherwise you would live in fear again Instead the Holy Spirit you received made you Gods adopted child By the Spirits power we call God Abba Abba means Father
A church leader takes care of Gods family Thats why he must be without blame He must not look after only his own interests
Instead, do it because you want to. That’s what God wants you to do.
The prophets also wrote about him. He is Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”
Sir the woman said I can see that you are a prophet
But others said A person controlled by a demon does not say things like this
So Jesus appointed the  disciples
We worked, even though we have the right to receive help from you.
Then I can talk with you face to face. That will make our joy complete.
I have told you all this so that you will not turn away from the truth
All who are forced to serve as slaves should consider their masters worthy of full respect.
“Teacher,”
Herod had arrested John. He had tied him up and put him in prison because of Herodias. She was the wife of Herod’s brother Philip.
Don’t do it because you want to get money in dishonest ways. Do it because you really want to serve.
He did only a few miracles in Nazareth because the people there had no faith.
The leader must also be respected by those who are outside the church. Then he will not be put to shame. He will not fall into the devil’s trap.
Don’t you remember the seven loaves for the ,? Don’t you remember how many baskets of pieces you gathered?
Teachings like those come from liars who pretend to be what they are not
You struggle against sin. But you have not yet fought to the point of spilling your blood.
I heard the voice I had heard before It sounded like a trumpet The voice said Come up here I will show you what must happen after this
It doesnt make sense to send a prisoner on to Rome without listing the charges against him
But it is more important for you that I stay alive
He is the one who will baptize with the Holy Spirit.’
You have taken with you the star of your false god Rephan
And then he said to his disciples Let us go back to Judea
The one considered least important among all of you is really the most important
We sailed straight to Kos. The next day we went to Rhodes.
For three months he was taken care of by his family.
Be sure that you dont say no to the one who speaks
Right away a rooster crowed
God began a good work in you. And I am sure that he will carry it on until it is completed. That will be on the day Christ Jesus returns.
How terrible for you Pharisees You love the most important seats in the synagogues
So what should I do
